




         Business and Functional Requirements Specification Document

                 ISIN Issuance for Money Market Instruments
                                   As NNA





                                    [pic]





Created by:      Brett Kotze
Reviewed by:     Money Market Forum, STRATE
Quality Assured: EPO
Approved by:           Money Market Forum (MMF)/STRATE/NMPG/JSE (pending)
Date:            18 March 2004
Version:         2.14 Final



|Table of Contents               |                                |


1.    References 4


2.    Version Control  4


3.    Introduction and Scope 6


4.    Objective  6


5.    Business Requirements  7


5.1   Current Business Environment      7


5.2   MMF Business Requirements Definition   7


5.3   JSE Requirements Definition 10


6.    Cost Recovery    12


7.    Distribution     12


8.    Glossary   13


9.    Sign-Off   14


10.   Appendix A Sequence diagrams      15


10.1  MMI ISIN Issue   15


10.2  MMI ISIN Cancellation/De-issue    17


10.3  MMI Cancellation on Maturity      19


11.   Appendix B ISIN Request to NNA    21


11.1  ISIN Request to NNA (MT598-150-NEWM)   21


12.   Appendix C ISIN Request Rejection from NNA   24


12.1  ISIN Request Rejection from NNA (MT598-901/598-902)     24


12.2  Format Rejection – MT598-901      24


12.3  Message Content Rejection – MT598-902  25


13.   Appendix D Confirmation of ISIN by NNA 26


13.1  ISIN Confirmation from NNA (MT598-151) 26


14.   Appendix E ISIN Confirmation Rejection from STRATE 30


14.1  ISIN Confirmation Rejection from STRATE      30


14.2  Format Rejection – MT598-901      30


14.3  Message Content Rejection – MT598-902  30


15.   Appendix F Request for Cancellation/De-issue of ISIN    31


15.1  ISIN Cancellation / De-Issue Request to NNA (MT598-150) 31


16.   Appendix G  ISIN  Cancellation/De-issue  Request  Rejection  from  NNA
33


16.1  ISIN Cancellation Request Rejection from NNA 33


16.2  Format Rejection – MT598-901      33


16.3  Message Content Rejection – MT598-902  33


17.   Appendix H ISIN Cancellation/De-issue Confirmation from NNA   34


17.1  ISIN Cancellation/De-issue Confirmation from NNA   34


18.   Appendix I ISIN Cancellation/De-issue Confirmation Rejection  37


from STRATE 37


18.1  ISIN Cancellation Confirmation Rejection from STRATE    37


18.2  Format Rejection – MT598-901      37


18.3  Message Content Rejection – MT598-902  37


19.   Appendix J Request for Cancellation of ISIN on Maturity 38


19.1  ISIN Cancellation on Maturity to NNA (MT598-150)   38


20.   Appendix K ISIN Cancellation on Maturity Rejection from NNA   39


20.1  ISIN Cancellation on Maturity Rejection from NNA   39


20.2  Format Rejection – MT598-901      39


20.3  Message Content Rejection – MT598-902  40


21.   Appendix L ISIN Front End Functionality      40


21.1 BCP Requirements  40


21.2 Manual Updates    40


21.3 Rejections JSE to STRATE     40


21.4 Rejections STRATE to JSE     40


21.5 View and print issued/de-issued/matured ISINs 40





   References


|Document/Meeting             |Author        |Version|Issue Date  |
|Money Market                 |MMF           |1.0    |31 Dec 2002 |
|Dematerialisation Blueprint  |              |       |            |
|Meeting: Anne Clayton, Des   |N/A           |N/A    |19 March    |
|Davidson, Brett Kotze, Arthur|              |       |2003        |
|Cousins and Graham Lund      |              |       |            |
|E-mail message               |Arthur Cousins|N/A    |17 April    |
|                             |              |       |2003        |
|E-mail message               |Arthur Cousins|N/A    |10 May 2003 |
|MM Specifications Issuing    |STRATE        |1.0    |10 Sept 2003|
|Process                      |              |Draft  |            |



   Version Control


|Version |Author      |Date             |Reason for Changes        |
|0.1     |Anne Clayton|9 April 2003     |First Draft               |
|0.2     |Anne Clayton|23 April 2003    |Updated with comments: Des|
|        |            |                 |Davidson                  |
|0.3     |Anne Clayton|17 May 2003      |Update editing errors; and|
|        |            |                 |update with Brett Kotze's |
|        |            |                 |and Arthur Cousin's       |
|        |            |                 |comments.                 |
|1.0     |Anne Clayton|19 May 2003      |Distributed version       |
|        |            |                 |quality assurance provided|
|        |            |                 |by JSE EPO                |
|1.1a    |Anne Clayton|26 May 2003      |Updated with further      |
|        |            |                 |comments - Brett Kotze    |
|1.1b    |Anne Clayton|27 May 2003      |Redrew Visio diagram to   |
|        |            |                 |reduce size of document   |
|2.0     |Anne Clayton|29 May 2003      |Distributed updated       |
|        |            |                 |version                   |
|2.1     |Brett Kotze |14 September 2003|Update document with      |
|        |            |                 |message flows and content |
|2.2     |Brett Kotze |18 September 2003|Updated with comments     |
|        |            |                 |received from STRATE      |
|2.3     |Brett Kotze |22 September 2003|Updated as per Brett’s    |
|        |            |                 |comment on MMI            |
|        |            |                 |Cancellation on Maturity. |
|        |            |                 |Added a new section on MMI|
|        |            |                 |Cancellation              |
|2.4     |Brett Kotze |29 September 2003|1) Update with MMF        |
|        |            |                 |comments.                 |
|        |            |                 |2) Update with Brett’s    |
|        |            |                 |comments.                 |
|        |            |                 |3) Include flows for      |
|        |            |                 |Cancellation on maturity  |
|        |            |                 |of instrument.            |
|        |            |                 |4) Include MT 500 content |
|        |            |                 |for top-up/reduction.     |
|2.5     |Brett Kotze |03 October 2003  |Change Appendixes from MT |
|        |            |                 |500s to MT 598s and update|
|        |            |                 |contents of the document  |
|        |            |                 |to refer to MT 598s       |
|2.6     |Brett Kotze |07 October 2003  |Update issuance amount on |
|        |            |                 |table, remove flows for   |
|        |            |                 |top-ups and reductions,   |
|        |            |                 |correct formatting, etc.  |
|2.7     |Brett Kotze |09 October 2003  |Update with comments from |
|        |            |                 |NMPG                      |
|2.8     |Brett Kotze |15 October 2003  |Update with comments      |
|        |            |                 |received from Celest Botha|
|        |            |                 |(FNB)                     |
|2.9     |Brett Kotze |11 February 2004 |Update with comments      |
|        |            |                 |received from Eileen &    |
|        |            |                 |Ganesh (STRATE)           |
|2.10    |Brett Kotze |19 February 2004 |Further update to STRATE  |
|        |            |                 |Volume A, removal of the  |
|        |            |                 |FIA Optional Block and    |
|        |            |                 |including Front End       |
|        |            |                 |details as an Annexure    |
|2.11    |Brett Kotze |12 March 2004    |Further update with       |
|        |            |                 |comments from IT          |
|2.12    |Brett Kotze |16 March 2004    |Further update with       |
|        |            |                 |comments received from    |
|        |            |                 |STRATE and IT             |
|2.13    |Brett Kotze |18 March 2004    |Further update with       |
|        |            |                 |comments received from IT |
|2.14    |Brett Kotze |23 March 2004    |Changed accepted Final    |
|        |            |                 |copy                      |


   Introduction and Scope



Des Davison, Brett Kotze and Anne Clayton, of the JSE Securities Exchange
South Africa (JSE), met with Arthur Cousins and Graham Lund, of the Money
Market Forum (MMF), on the 19 March 2003.

The MMF launched a project to establish an electronic money market
environment in South Africa.  UNEXcor and STRATE tendered for the
dematerialisation and settlement of money market instruments and in
September 2002, the MMF appointed UNEXcor as the service provider.

Pursuant to the appointment of UNEXcor as the service provider of the
dematerialisation and settlement of money market instruments an agreement
to merge STRATE and UNEXcor has been reached effective from 01 August 2003.
 The new entity, hereinafter referred to as STRATE, will provide the
services as originally tendered by UNEXcor.

The JSE is a paid-up member of the Association of National Numbering Agents
(ANNA), i.e. an authorised National Numbering Agent (NNA) - an entity
authorised to issue ISINs in accordance with ISO and ANNA rules and
guidelines.  In terms of the requirements of ANNA, only one NNA may be
authorised per country.

The JSE issues and disseminates ISINs for equities when a new equity is
loaded in the mainframe programme - EQUITY MASTER DATA (EMD).  All equity
master data is managed and maintained by the JSE's Listings Division.  The
JSE's Market Information Division also maintains and issues ISINs for
bonds, as a service to BESA, in the mainframe programme GILT MASTER DATA
(MDGL), which is a manual process.

The MMF and STRATE have approached the JSE with their key requirements - to
enable dematerialisation, trading and electronic clearing and settlement of
money market instruments on the same day that requires the issuing of an
ISIN code.  The scope of this project is to provide an electronic method to
enable the MMF participants via STRATE to create, amend and delete ISIN
codes for money market instruments.






   Objective


This document sets out the business requirements for the issuing of money
market instruments ISIN codes by the JSE. As STRATE will be paying for the
development and monthly running costs of this service, this document will
be forwarded to the JSE’s Application and Service Division (ASD) for an
assessment and quote for costs of design, development, testing,
implementation and monthly running costs of ISIN Issuance for Money Market
Instruments.

The costs will be forwarded to STRATE for their review and approval and
only thereafter, subject to NMPG approval of the SWIFT messages to be used
and message content, will design and development start taking place. (Note:
-Due to unforeseen complications, the design and development has been
completed prior to the costs being approved by STRATE.




   Business Requirements




1 Current Business Environment



Money market instruments  are  normally  traded  and  settled  on  the  same
business day (T+0).  Settlement is on a gross physical basis between  seller
and buyer.  The majority of activity in the money market  is  undertaken  in
the  primary  market  (i.e.  between  issuer  and  buyer)  and  the  typical
participants in this market are registered banks.

The Objectives of the Electronic Money Market are as follows: -


     ➢ Reduce the identified risks associated with Money Market practices.


     ➢ Improve liquidity in the Money Market.


     ➢ Improve the tradability of the instruments in the secondary market.


     ➢ Reduce the inherent costs in Money Market processes.


    ➢ Improve the marketability of instruments, creating a competitive
      benefit for an institution trading in Money Market instruments.


     ➢ Align South African market practices and procedures with world best
       practices.


    ➢ Improve the integrity of the Money Market creating an environment
      that is safe, secure, structured, formalised and robust.



     2 MMF Business Requirements Definition



To achieve an electronic clearing and settlement environment (DvP), all  new
instruments  will  be  issued  electronically   (dematerialised/immobilised)
before sale and delivery into the primary market.  As an  ISIN  is  the  key
securities code identification, and used by  STRATEs  system,  SAFIRES,  for
settlement purposes and CSDPs for recording purposes, the  MMF  requires  an
electronic methodology to create, amend and delete ISINs for  electronically
(dematerialised/immobilised) issued money market instruments.

The MMF has approved SWIFT (ISO15022 standards) as the communication
protocol and STRATE has recommended that the MT 598 User Defined SWIFT
messages be used as the format for the messages, as detailed in Appendix B
to K.  The content and format of the MT 598 User Defined SWIFT messages
will require approval from the MMF and NMPG before finalisation and
acceptance by the JSE.


The MMF requires that the JSE provide ISINs automatically in response to  an
electronic request (SWIFT), as the immediacy of the issuance of an  ISIN  is
essential for the trading, and electronic clearing and settlement  of  money
market  instruments.   The  MMF  estimates  an   issuance   requirement   of
approximately 200 to  500  ISINs  per  day.   To  distinguish  money  market
instruments ISINs from equities (ZAE) and bonds (ZAG) the MMF has  requested
the use of an ISIN prefix of ZAM.

Pursuant to the STRATE/UNEXcor merger, as noted above, it  has  been  agreed
that the SWIFT messages to create, amend or delete an ISIN for money  market
instruments would be routed via STRATE, and the interaction would  therefore
be limited, from the JSEs perspective, between STRATE and the  JSE  for  the
issuance of ISINs.


The automated ISIN Issuance for Money  Market  Instruments  system  will  be
implemented by the JSE in the 2nd quarter 2004.

The Systems Component Model, set out in Figure 1  below,  was  sourced  from
the MMF document: "Money Market Dematerialisation Blueprint", December  2002
and is included in this document for illustrative purposes.

Figure 1    Systems Component Model[1]














The Conceptual Model set out in Figure 2 below,  is  an  adaptation  of  the
Systems Component Model set out in Figure 1, to represent the  participation
of the JSE, in its capacity as a NNA, in providing the ISINs  to  STRATE  as
CSD/IOR. This is included in this document for  illustrative  purposes.  The
following assumptions have been made:

   • The Custodian and Banker components are incorporated into one entity  -
     CSDP;
   • The Trading component refers to either a system (Trading  or  Reporting
     Engine) or the act of reaching a contractual agreement (i.e. a  trade);
     and
   • The MMF Participants communicate directly with the DvP Engine component
     or indirectly through the Trading/Reporting Engine;



Figure 2    Conceptual Model


3 JSE Requirements Definition




     1 Development


      The JSE’s ASD department will be required to develop a programme for
      the automatic issuance of ISINs for money market instruments. This
      will include a programme to "unstring" the MT 598 User Defined SWIFT
      messages and “string” the MT 598 User Defined SWIFT messages, as
      detailed in Appendix B to K, for the request and notification of ISINs
      by/to STRATE. To differentiate between the JSEs current SWIFT BIC
      codes and ensure correct routing and message identification the JSE
      will apply for a new branch code “ISN” as an extension of their
      current BIC address. (i.e. XJSEZAJJXISN)


2 Market Rules


      ANNA and ISO determine the rules regarding issuing and deleting ISINs.
       The rules and guidance notes are set out in the following documents
      (as amended from time to time):
         • ANNA Guidelines for ISO 6166, Version 5, December 1988 (update:
           Oct. 2001)
         • ISO 6166, Sixth edition, 2001-03-15


      Further market rules regarding issuing, amending and deleting ISINs
      required will be provided by the JSE.


3 Service Level Agreement


      The JSE and STRATE will enter into a Service Level Agreement (SLA)
      that sets out all the arrangements pertaining to the service provided
      by the JSE and will include a Business Continuity Plan(BCP). This will
      be made available to money market participants for their perusal and
      reference.


4 Field Specifications


      The MMF, in an effort to standardise money market instruments for the
      purposes of simplifying the management and processing of instruments,
      has identified four generic categories of money market instruments, as
      follows: -


    Category 1:  Discount based, fixed term, where the MMI is bought at a
                 discount and the nominal value is repayable on maturity.


     Category 2:  Yield based, fixed coupon rate and fixed term, where the
                 MMI is bought at nominal value, the coupon is payable at
                 intervals (i.e. Coupon Interval) throughout the term, and
                 the final coupon payment and the nominal value are
                 repayable on maturity.


    Category 3:  Yield based, variable coupon rate and fixed term where the
                 MMI is bought at nominal value, coupon is payable at
                 intervals (i.e. Coupon Interval) throughout the term, and
                 the final coupon payment and the nominal value are
                 repayable on maturity.


    Category 4:  Yield based, variable coupon rate and variable term where
                 the MMI is bought at nominal value, coupon is payable at
                 intervals (i.e. Coupon Interval) throughout the term, the
                 nominal value and coupon for the last interest period are
                 repayable on maturity and the instrument matures on call.


      These generic characteristics together with the approved the MT 598
      User Defined SWIFT messages formats and contents will determine the
      fields required in the Money Market ISIN Issuance programme.


      The table below sets out per generic money market instrument: -


         ➢ The data required to be held per MMI by the NNA; and
         ➢ The definitive characteristics (i.e. the unique combination of
           characteristics) required for the issuance of ISINs.:-


      |     |Data Required         |Definitive        |
|     |                      |Characteristics   |
|     |                      |for ISIN          |
|     |                      |Generation per    |
|     |                      |Generic Category  |
|     |                      |1  |2   |3   |4   |
|2    |MMI Type:             |(  |(   |(   |(   |
|3    |Short Description     |(  |(   |(   |(   |
|4    |MMI Generic Category  |(  |(   |(   |(   |
|5    |Issue Date:           |(  |(   |(   |(   |
|6    |Maturity Date:        |(  |(   |(   |    |
|7    |Coupon Rate:          |   |(   |(   |(   |
|8    |Coupon Interval:      |   |(   |(   |(   |


         ➢ In the interim the issued amount will not be required. However,
           the JSE’s systems will be developed to cater for the issued
           amount, which will be defaulted.


      Refer Appendix B to K, for fields and contents of the MT 598 User
      Defined SWIFT messages.



      5 SWIFT Message Types


      9 SWIFT message types must be provided for, as detailed in the below
      table:-


             |   |Message      |Message  |Message  |Details             |
|   |Type         |Initiator|Recipient|                    |
|   |             |         |s        |                    |
|1  |Request New  |STRATE   |JSE      |Request for issuance|
|   |             |         |         |of new ISIN         |
|2  |Reject New   |JSE      |STRATE   |Reject request –    |
|   |             |         |         |duplication (DUPL)  |
|   |             |         |         |or                  |
|   |             |         |         |invalid[2]/incomplet|
|   |             |         |         |e (INVL) request    |
|3  |Accept New   |JSE      |STRATE   |Accept request for  |
|   |             |         |         |new ISIN and include|
|   |             |         |         |ISIN in message     |
|4  |Request      |STRATE   |JSE      |Request for         |
|   |Cancellation |         |         |cancellation of     |
|   |             |         |         |existing ISIN       |
|5  |Reject       |JSE      |STRATE   |Reject request –    |
|   |Cancellation |         |         |duplication (DUPL)  |
|   |             |         |         |or                  |
|   |             |         |         |invalid/incomplete  |
|   |             |         |         |(INVL) request      |
|6  |Accept       |JSE      |STRATE   |Accept request for  |
|   |Cancellation |         |         |cancellation of ISIN|
|   |             |         |         |and include         |
|   |             |         |         |confirmation of     |
|   |             |         |         |cancellation in     |
|   |             |         |         |message             |
|7  |Request      |STRATE   |JSE      |Request to          |
|   |Deregistratio|         |         |deregister an ISIN  |
|   |n            |         |         |for an instrument   |
|   |             |         |         |that has matured.   |
|8  |Reject       |JSE      |STRATE   |Deregistration      |
|   |Deregistratio|         |         |request rejected.   |
|   |n            |         |         |                    |
|9  |Accept       |JSE      |STRATE   |Accept request to   |
|   |Deregistratio|         |         |deregister an ISIN  |
|   |n            |         |         |for an instrument   |
|   |             |         |         |that has matured,   |
|   |             |         |         |and include         |
|   |             |         |         |confirmation of     |
|   |             |         |         |deregistration in   |
|   |             |         |         |message.            |


     Refer Appendix A for the process flows of the above messages.
     Refer Appendix B to K for fields and contents of the MT 598 User
     Defined SWIFT messages.





   Cost Recovery



 All costs for the design, development, testing and implementation of the
 automatic Money Market ISIN Issuance system will be recovered from STRATE.
 In addition, a monthly running cost, covering the cost of administration
 and maintenance of the data and systems will be recovered from STRATE.  The
 monthly running costs and billing methodology will require definition, by
 the JSE, in the SLA.  Invoicing will be conducted by the JSE's Finance
 Division.





   Distribution


|Participants        |Money Market Forum                           |
|Iann Seymour-Smith  |STRATE                                       |
|Shah Ebrahim        |STRATE                                       |
|Maria Dalle Ave.    |JSE ASD SCP                                  |
|Freda Evans         |JSE Finance                                  |
|Des Davidson        |JSE C&S                                      |
|Brett Kotze         |JSE C&S                                      |
|Marcelle White      |JSE EPO                                      |
|Nicky Newton-King   |JSE New Business                             |
|Michael Thomson     |JSE Listings                                 |
|Clare Fraga         |Accenture AM                                 |



   Glossary


|AM        |Application Management                                |
|ANNA      |Association of National Numbering Agencies            |
|BESA      |Bond Exchange of South Africa                         |
|BCP       |Business Continuity Plan                              |
|BIC       |Bank Identifier Code                                  |
|BKE       |Bilateral Key Exchange                                |
|CREST     |United Kingdom CSD                                    |
|CSD       |Central Securities Depository                         |
|CSDP      |Central Securities Depository Participant             |
|IOR       |Instrument Ownership Register                         |
|ISIN      |International Securities Identification Number        |
|          |designed by the International Organisation for        |
|          |Standardization (ISO) and advocated by G30.           |
|ISO       |International Organisation for Standardization        |
|JSE       |JSE Securities Exchange South Africa                  |
|MMF       |Money Market Forum, a body representing the           |
|          |participants in the South African money market.       |
|MMI       |Money Market Instrument                               |
|NMPG      |National Market Practice Group                        |
|NNA       |National Numbering Agent                              |
|SAFIRES   |Southern Africa Financial Instrument Real-time        |
|          |Electronic Settlement system                          |
|SLA       |Service Level Agreement                               |
|STRATE    |STRATE LTD                                            |
|SWIFT     |Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial             |
|          |Telecommunication                                     |
|UNEXcor   |Universal Exchange Corporation                        |



   Sign-Off


|All parties signing this document acknowledge that they have read,|
|understood and are committed to this document, including all      |
|attached schedules and diagrams.                                  |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Name:      |Des Davidson         |Name:       |Brett Kotze         |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Designation|                     |Designation:|                    |
|:          |                     |            |                    |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Project    |Project Sponsor      |Project     |Project Owner       |
|Role:      |                     |Role:       |                    |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Signature: |                     |Signature:  |                    |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Date:      |                     |Date:       |                    |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Name:      |Marcelle White       |Name:       |.                   |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Designation|                     |Designation:|                    |
|:          |                     |            |                    |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Project    |Project Manager      |Project     |                    |
|Role:      |                     |Role:       |                    |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Signature: |                     |Signature:  |                    |
|           |                     |            |                    |
|Date:      |                     |Date:       |                    |
|           |                     |            |                    |

   Appendix A Sequence diagrams



1 MMI ISIN Issue









1.          MMI Issue Request to NNA (MT598-150 – NEWM).
1a.   MMI Issue Request Rejection from NNA (MT598-901/MT598-902).
2.    MMI Issue Confirmation from NNA (MT598-151 – NEWM).
2a.   MMI Issue Confirmation Rejection to NNA (MT598-901/MT598-902).





























2  MMI ISIN Cancellation/De-issue

















1.          MMI Cancellation/De-issue Request to NNA (MT598-150 – NEWM).
1a.   MMI Cancellation/De-issue Request Rejection from NNA (MT598-901/MT598-
902).
2.    MMI Cancellation/De-issue Confirmation from NNA (MT598-151 – NEWM).
2a.   MMI Cancellation/De-issue Confirmation Rejection to NNA (MT598-
901/MT598-902).



3 MMI Cancellation on Maturity















      1a






1.    MMI Cancellation Request to NNA on maturity of instrument (MT598-150
– MATU).
1a.   MMI Cancellation Request Rejection from NNA (MT598-901/MT598-902).





   Appendix B ISIN Request to NNA



1 ISIN Request to NNA (MT598-150-NEWM)


The MMI Engine will forward the validated MMI Issue Request (MT598-150 –
NEWM) to NNA. The layout of the MT598-150 is given below:

Format Specifications

|Sl.  |Tag |Qualifi|Name                   |M/O |Options                 |
|No   |    |er     |                       |    |                        |
|2.   |12  |       |Sub-Message Type       |M   |3!n                     |
|     |    |       |                       |    |Valid Value is:         |
|     |    |       |                       |    |150                     |
|3.   |77E |       |Proprietary Message    |M   |                        |

Mandatory Sequence A General Information
|4.   |16R |       |Start of block         |M   |GENL                    |
|     |    |       |- General              |    |                        |
|5.   |23G |       |Function of the message|M   |4!c                     |
|     |    |       |                       |    |Values:                 |
|     |    |       |                       |    |NEWM – New message      |
|6.   |98C |PREP   |Preparation date and   |O   |//8!n6!n                |
|     |    |       |time                   |    |                        |
|7.   |22F |INST   |Type of instruction    |M   |/STRA/4!c               |
|     |    |       |indicator              |    |Values:                 |
|     |    |       |                       |    |ISSU – ISIN Issue       |
|     |    |       |                       |    |Request                 |

|8.   |16S |       |End of block           |M   |GENL                    |
|     |    |       |- General              |    |                        |


End of Sequence A General Information

Mandatory Sequence B MMI Details
|9.   |16R |       |Start of block          |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |
|10.  |95R | ISSR  |Issuer's Participant    |M   |/STRA/2!a6!n            |
|     |    |       |Code                    |    |(Issuer’s Participant   |
|     |    |       |(Issuer)                |    |Code)                   |
|11.  |35B |       |Identification of       |M   |[ISIN1!e12!c]           |
|     |    |       |securities              |    |[4*35x]                 |
|     |    |       |(ISIN)                  |    |Sub-field 1 should not  |
|     |    |       |                        |    |be present              |
|     |    |       |                        |    |Sub-field 2 is Mandatory|
|12.  |36B | QISS  |Quantity Issued         |M   |//FAMT/15d(To be        |
|     |    |       |(Issued Amount)         |    |defaulted by STRATE)    |
|     |    |       |                        |    |Down to 3 decimals      |

Optional Subsequence B1 Financial Instrument Attributes
|13.  |16R |       |Start of block          |M   |FIA                     |
|     |    |       |- Financial instrument  |    |                        |
|     |    |       |attributes              |    |                        |
|14.  |22F |PFRE   |Coupon Payment Frequency|C   |/STRA/4!c               |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for category |    |See Field Descriptions  |
|     |    |       |2/3/4)                  |    |                        |
|15.  |13B |CPYD   |Coupon Payment Day      |C   |/STRA/2!n               |
|     |    |       |                        |    |                        |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for category |    |Valid Values:           |
|     |    |       |2/3/4)                  |    |01-31                   |
|16.  |12A |CATG   |Generic Category        |M   |//1!n                   |
|17.  |22H |TYPE   |MMI Type                |M   |/STRA/4!c Note. The STRA|
|     |    |       |                        |    |is not a SWIFT standard.|
|     |    |       |                        |    |However, as the         |
|     |    |       |                        |    |development has catered |
|     |    |       |                        |    |for this STRATE have    |
|     |    |       |                        |    |agreed to include this  |
|     |    |       |                        |    |code.                   |
|18.  |98A |MATU   |Maturity date           |    |//8!n                   |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for Category |C   |                        |
|     |    |       |1, 2 & 3)               |    |                        |
|19.  |98A |ISSU   |Issue Date              |    |//8!n                   |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for Category |M   |                        |
|     |    |       |1, 2, 3 & 4)            |    |                        |
|20.  |92A |INTR   |Coupon Rate             |    |//[N]15d(7,7 Decimals)  |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for Category |C   |                        |
|     |    |       |2, 3 & 4)               |    |                        |
|21.  |16S |       |End of block            |M   |FIA                     |
|     |    |       |- Financial instrument  |    |                        |
|     |    |       |attributes              |    |                        |


-----| End of Subsequence B1 Financial Instrument Attributes

|22.  |16S |       |End of block            |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |


-----| End of Sequence B MMI Details

Field Descriptions

1.    Transaction reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the message.

2.    Sub-message Type (M): This field identifies the sub-message type
   involved in the proprietary message. The valid value is:

               ➢ 150 – ISIN Request.


3.    Proprietary Message (M): This field identifies that this is a
   proprietary message. This should not have any contents.


4.    Start of GENL block (M): This field identifies the start of General
   block and it should have a value of GENL.

5.    Function of the message (M): This field identifies the function of
   the message. The valid value is:


               ➢ NEWM – For new message.


6.    Preparation date and time (O): This field gives the preparation date
   and time of the message.

7.    Type of instruction indicator (M): This field identifies the
   instruction indicator. The valid value is:


               ➢ ISSU –ISIN Issue Request.


8.    End of GENL block (M): This field identifies the end of General block
   and it should have a value of GENL.

9.    Start of MMID block (M): This field identifies the start of the MMI
   Details block and it should have a value of MMID.

10.   Issuer's Participant Code (M): This field identifies the Participant
   Code of the Issuer.


               ➢ The valid value is ISSR – Issuer.

11.   Identification of securities (M): This field identifies the ISIN
   information.


               ➢ Sub-field 1 should not be present
               ➢ Sub-field 2 is Mandatory


12.   Quantity Issued (M): This field identifies the Issued amount of a
   financial instrument. (To be defaulted by STRATE)

13.   Start of FIA block (M): This field identifies the start of the
   Financial Instrument Attributes block and should have a value of FIA.


14.   Coupon Payment Frequency (C):This field identifies the Payment
   Frequency of the MMI.
   The valid values are:

      ➢ ANNU – Annually Payment Cycle
      ➢ MNTH – Monthly Payment Cycle
      ➢ QUTR – Quarterly Payment Cycle
    ➢ SEMI – Half Yearly Payment Cycle
      ➢ TERM – On Maturity of the MMI

15.   Coupon Payment Day (C):  This field identifies the Coupon Payment Day
   of the MMI.
   The valid values are 01-31





16. Generic Category (M): This field identifies the Generic Category of the
   instrument. The valid values are:
      1 – Generic Category 1
      2 – Generic Category 2
      3 – Generic Category 3
      4 – Generic Category 4

17. MMI Type (M): This field identifies the MMI Type. The valid values are:

|                             |MMI    |MMI    |MMI    |MMI    |
|MMI Type Description         |Type   |Type   |Type   |Type   |
|                             |Categor|Categor|Categor|Categor|
|                             |y 1    |y 2    |y 3    |y 4    |
|Bankers Acceptances          |EBA    |       |       |       |
|Bills                        |EBL    |       |       |       |
|Commercial Paper             |ECPB   |       |       |       |
|Bills/Capital Project Bills  |       |       |       |       |
|Promissory Notes             |EPN    |       |       |       |
|Treasury Bills               |ETB    |       |       |       |
|Notes                        |ENOT   |NOT    |NOT    |       |
|Bridging Bonds               |       |BB     |       |       |
|Debentures                   |       |DEB    |       |       |
|Negotiable Certificates of   |       |NCD    |NCD    |NCD    |
|Deposit                      |       |       |       |       |
|Linked Negotiable            |       |       |LNCD   |       |
|Certificates of Deposit      |       |       |       |       |
|Credit Linked Notes          |       |       |CLN    |       |
|Floating Rate Notes          |       |       |FRN    |       |
|Call Bonds                   |       |       |       |CB     |
|Zero Bonds                   |       |ZB     |       |       |

          Note:   This field requires 4 alpha characters to be present.
              Where the MMI Type is less than 4 alpha characters, the
              spaces after the MMI Type must be filled with ‘X’s’. For
              example, NOT will be NOTX, ZB will be ZBXX, etc..


18.   Maturity date (C): This field identifies the maturity date of a
   financial instrument.

19.   Issue date (M): This field identifies the issue date of a financial
   instrument.

20.   Coupon Rate (C): This field identifies the Coupon Rate of a financial
   instrument. It is optional for Category 1 but mandatory for Categories 2,
   3 and 4, (7,7 Decimals)

21.   End of FIA block (M): This field identifies the end of the Financial
   Instrument Attributes block and should have a value of FIA.


22.   End of MMID block (M): This field identifies the end of the MMI
   Details block and should have a value of MMID.
   Appendix C ISIN Request Rejection from NNA



1 ISIN Request Rejection from NNA (MT598-901/598-902)


The rejection from NNA can be of two types:

Format Rejection (MT598-901).
Message Content Rejection (MT598-902).


2 Format Rejection – MT598-901


On receipt of the message (MT598-150-NEWM) from the MMI Engine, NNA will
perform basic validations. If the format of the message is not as per the
‘Interface Specification – Volume A’, then NNA will generate a rejection
message (MT598-901) to the MMI Engine. The layout of the MT598-901 is given
below:

Field Specifications
|Sl.  |Tag |Name                   |M/O  |Options               |
|No   |    |                       |     |                      |
|1.   |20  |Transaction reference  |M    |16x                   |
|2.   |12  |Sub-message Type       |M    |3!n                   |
|     |    |                       |     |Value:                |
|     |    |                       |     |901                   |
|3.   |77E |Proprietary Message    |M    |                      |
|4.   |79  |Narrative              |M    |See Field Description |
|5.   |13E |Date / Time Indicator  |M    |8!n4!n                |
|6.   |21  |Related Reference      |M    |16x                   |

Field Description

1.    Transaction reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the message.

2.    Sub-message Type (M): This field identifies the sub-message type
   involved in the proprietary message. The valid value is:


               ➢ 901 – NOK Message.

3.    Proprietary Message (M): This field identifies that this is a
   proprietary message. This should not have any contents.

4.    Narrative (M): This field identifies the error code and the
   corresponding tag name. The format is:


               ➢ 4!n/3c – Sub-field1 indicates the error code and sub-
                 field 2 indicates the tag name.
      (This can be repeatable 5times)(The error codes are still to be
      defined between the IOR and the NNA)

5.    Date and Time (M): This field gives the preparation date and time of
   the message.

6.    Related Reference (M): This field identifies the Transaction
   reference (tag 20) of the original message.


3 Message Content Rejection – MT598-902


On receipt of the message (MT598-150-NEWM) from the MMI Engine, NNA will
perform basic validations. If the validation is not successful, then NNA
will generate a rejection message (MT598-902) to the MMI Engine. The layout
of the MT598-902 is given below:

Format Specifications
|Sl.  |Tag |Qualifi|Name                   |M/O  |Options               |
|No   |    |er     |                       |     |                      |
|2.   |12  |       |Sub-message Type       |M    |3!n                   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Value:                |
|     |    |       |                       |     |902                   |
|3.   |77E |       |Proprietary Message    |     |                      |
|4.   |16R |       |Start of block         |M    |GENL                  |
|     |    |       |- General              |     |                      |
|5.   |20C |RELA   |Related reference      |M    |//16x                 |
|6.   |98C |PREP   |Preparation date and   |M    |//8!n6!n              |
|     |    |       |time                   |     |                      |
|6.   |70D |EROR   |Error Details          |M    |//4!n/4!n/4!n/4!n/4!n |
|7.   |16S |       |End of Block           |M    |GENL                  |
|     |    |       |- General              |     |                      |

Field Description

1.    Transaction reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the message.

2.    Sub-message Type (M): This field identifies the sub-message type
   involved in the proprietary message. The valid value is:


               ➢ 902 – Rejection Message.


3.    Proprietary Message (M): This field identifies that this is a
   proprietary message. This should not have any contents.


4.    Start of GENL block (M): This field identifies the start of the
   General block and it should have a value of GENL.

5.    Related Reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the original message.

6.    Error Details (M): This field identifies the validation error
   details. The error code will be of the format 4!n and maximum of 5 error
   codes can be accommodated in the message. (The error codes are still to
   be defined between the IOR and the NNA)

7.    End of GENL block (M): This field identifies the end of the General
   block and it should have a value of GENL.

   Appendix D Confirmation of ISIN by NNA



1 ISIN Confirmation from NNA (MT598-151)


Format Specifications
|Sl.  |Tag |Qualifi|Name                   |M/O  |Options               |
|No   |    |er     |                       |     |                      |
|2.   |12  |       |Sub-Message Type       |M    |3!n                   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Valid Value is:       |
|     |    |       |                       |     |151                   |
|3.   |77E |       |Proprietary Message    |M    |                      |

Mandatory Sequence A General Information
|4.   |16R |       |Start of block         |M    |GENL                  |
|     |    |       |- General              |     |                      |
|5.   |23G |       |Function of the message|M    |4!c                   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Values:               |
|     |    |       |                       |     |NEWM – New message    |
|6.   |98C |PREP   |Preparation date and   |O    |//8!n6!n              |
|     |    |       |time                   |     |                      |
|7.   |22F |CONF   |Type of Confirmation   |M    |/STRA/4!c             |
|     |    |       |Indicator              |     |Values:               |
|     |    |       |                       |     |ISSU – ISIN Issue     |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Request               |

Repetitive Mandatory Subsequence A1 Linkages
|8.   |16R |       |Start of block          |M   |LINK                    |
|     |    |       |- Link Block            |    |                        |
|9.   |13A |LINK   |Number Identification   |M   |//3!c                   |
|     |    |       |                        |    |(Sub-message Type of the|
|     |    |       |                        |    |linked transaction; i.e.|
|     |    |       |                        |    |150)                    |
|10.  |20C |RELA   |Related Reference       |M   |//16x                   |
|     |    |       |                        |    |(Tag 20 of the original |
|     |    |       |                        |    |MT598-150)              |
|11.  |16S |       |End of block            |M   |LINK                    |
|     |    |       |- Link Block            |    |                        |


-----| End of Mandatory Subsequence A1 Linkages

|12.  |16S |       |End of block           |M   |GENL                    |
|     |    |       |- General              |    |                        |


End of Sequence A General Information

Mandatory Sequence B MMI Details
|13.  |16R |       |Start of block          |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |
|14.  |95R |ISSR   |Issuer's Participant    |M   |/STRA/2!a6!n            |
|     |    |       |Code                    |    |(Issuer’s Participant   |
|     |    |       |(Issuer)                |    |Code)                   |
|15.  |35B |       |Identification of       |M   |[ISIN1!e12!c]           |
|     |    |       |securities              |    |[4*35x]                 |
|     |    |       |(ISIN)                  |    |Sub-field 1 is Mandatory|
|16.  |36B |QISS   |Quantity Issued         |M   |//FAMT/15d(Down to 3    |
|     |    |       |(Issued Amount)         |    |Decimals)               |

Optional Subsequence B1 Financial Instrument Attributes
|17.  |16R |       |Start of block          |M   |FIA                     |
|     |    |       |- Financial instrument  |    |                        |
|     |    |       |attributes              |    |                        |
|18.  |22F |PFRE   |Coupon Payment Frequency|C   |/STRA/4!c               |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for Category |    |See Field Descriptions  |
|     |    |       |2/3/4)                  |    |                        |
|19.  |13B |CPYD   |Coupon Payment Day      |C   |/STRA/2!n               |
|     |    |       |                        |    |Valid Values:           |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for Category |    |01-31                   |
|     |    |       |2/3/4)                  |    |                        |
|20.  |12A |CATG   |Generic Category        |M   |//1!n                   |
|21.  |22H |TYPE   |MMI Type                |M   |/STRA/4!c Note. The STRA|
|     |    |       |                        |    |is not a SWIFT standard.|
|     |    |       |                        |    |However, as the         |
|     |    |       |                        |    |development has catered |
|     |    |       |                        |    |for this STRATE have    |
|     |    |       |                        |    |agreed to include this  |
|     |    |       |                        |    |code.                   |
|22.  |98A |MATU   |Maturity date           |C   |//8!n                   |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for Category |    |                        |
|     |    |       |1, 2, & 3)              |    |                        |
|23.  |98A |ISSU   |Issue Date              |M   |//8!n                   |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for Category |    |                        |
|     |    |       |1, 2, 3 & 4)            |    |                        |
|24.  |92A |INTR   |Coupon Rate             |C   |//[N]15d(7,7 Decimals)  |
|     |    |       |(Mandatory for Category |    |                        |
|     |    |       |2, 3 & 4)               |    |                        |
|25.  |16S |       |End of block            |M   |FIA                     |
|     |    |       |- Financial instrument  |    |                        |
|     |    |       |attributes              |    |                        |


-----| End of Subsequence B1 Financial Instrument Attributes

|26.  |16S |       |End of block            |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |


-----| End of Sequence B MMI Details

Field Descriptions

1.    Transaction reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the message.

2.    Sub-message Type (M): This field identifies the sub-message type
   involved in the proprietary message. The valid value is:


               ➢ 151 – ISIN Confirmation


3.    Proprietary Message (M): This field identifies that this is a
   proprietary message. This should not have any contents.


4.    Start of GENL block (M): This field identifies the start of GENL
   block and it should have a value of GENL.

5.    Function of the message (M): This field identifies the function of
   the message. The valid value is:


               ➢ NEWM – For new message.


6.    Preparation date and time (O): This field gives the preparation date
   and time of the message.

7.    Type of confirmation indicator (M): This field identifies the
   instruction indicator. The valid value is:


               ➢ ISSU –ISIN Issue Request.


8.    Start of link block (M): This field identifies the start of linkage
   block and it should have a value of LINK. This block is mandatory for
   ISIN Confirmation

9.    Number Identification (M): This field identifies the Sub-Message Type
   of the linked transaction. The valid value is 150.

10.   Related Reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the original message.

11.   End of link block (M): This field identifies the end of linkage block
   and it should have a value of LINK.


12.   End of GENL block (M): This field identifies the end of GENL block
   and it should have a value of GENL.

13.   Start of MMID block (M): This field identifies the start of the MMI
   Details block and it should have a value of MMID.

14.   Issuer's Participant Code (M): This field identifies the Participant
   Code of the Issuer. This should match with the original MT598-150 sent by
   STRATE.

15.   Identification of securities (M): This field identifies the ISIN
   information.


     ➢ Sub-field 1 is Mandatory, and will contain the newly assigned ISIN.


               ➢ Sub-field 2, if present, must match with the original
                 MT598-150.


16.   Quantity Issued (M): This field identifies the Issued amount of a
   financial instrument. This should match with the original MT598-150 sent
   by STRATE. (Down to 3 Decimals)

17.   Start of FIA block (M): This field identifies financial instrument
   attributes block and should have a value of FIA.


18.   Coupon Payment Frequency (C): This field identifies the Payment
   Frequency of the MMI.
   The valid values are:


    ➢ ANNU – Annually Payment Cycle
    ➢ MNTH – Monthly Payment Cycle
    ➢ QUTR – Quarterly Payment Cycle
    ➢ SEMI – Half Yearly Payment Cycle
    ➢ TERM – on Maturity of the MMI

   (If present, this should match with the original MT598-150 sent by
   STRATE)(Mandatory for Category 2/3/4)

19.   Coupon Payment Day (C): This field identifies the Coupon Payment Day
   of the MMI.
   The valid values are 01-31


(Mandatory for Category 2/3/4)


   (If present, this should match with the original MT598-150 sent by
   STRATE)






20. Generic Category (M): This field identifies the Generic Category of the
   instrument. The valid values are:
      1 – Generic Category 1
      2 – Generic Category 2
      3 – Generic Category 3
      4 – Generic Category 4












21. MMI Type (M): This field identifies the MMI Type. The valid values are:

|                             |MMI    |MMI    |MMI    |MMI    |
|MMI Type Description         |Type   |Type   |Type   |Type   |
|                             |Categor|Categor|Categor|Categor|
|                             |y 1    |y 2    |y 3    |y 4    |
|Bankers Acceptances          |EBA    |       |       |       |
|Bills                        |EBL    |       |       |       |
|Commercial Paper             |ECPB   |       |       |       |
|Bills/Capital Project Bills  |       |       |       |       |
|Promissory Notes             |EPN    |       |       |       |
|Treasury Bills               |ETB    |       |       |       |
|Notes                        |ENOT   |NOT    |NOT    |       |
|Bridging Bonds               |       |BB     |       |       |
|Debentures                   |       |DEB    |       |       |
|Negotiable Certificates of   |       |NCD    |NCD    |NCD    |
|Deposit                      |       |       |       |       |
|Linked Negotiable            |       |       |LNCD   |       |
|Certificates of Deposit      |       |       |       |       |
|Credit Linked Notes          |       |       |CLN    |       |
|Floating Rate Notes          |       |       |FRN    |       |
|Call Bonds                   |       |       |       |CB     |
|Zero Bonds                   |       |ZB     |       |       |

          Note:   This field requires 4 alpha characters to be present.
              Where the MMI Type is less than 4 alpha characters, the
              spaces after the MMI Type must be filled with ‘X’s’. For
              example, NOT will be NOTX, ZB will be ZBXX, etc..




22.   Maturity date (C): This field identifies the maturity date of a
   financial instrument. If present, this should match with the original
   MT598-150 sent by STRATE.

23.   Issue date (M): This field identifies the date of issue of a
   financial instrument. If present, this should match with the original
   MT598-150 sent by STRATE

24.   Coupon Rate (C): This field identifies the Coupon Rate of a financial
   instrument. It is optional for Category 1 but mandatory for Categories 2,
   3 and 4. If present, this should match with the original MT598-150 sent
   by STRATE. (7,7 Decimals)

25.   End of FIA block (M): This field identifies the end of financial
   instrument attributes block and should have a value of FIA.

26.   End of MMID block (M): This field identifies the end of the MMI
   Details block and should have a value of MMID.


   Appendix E ISIN Confirmation Rejection from STRATE



1 ISIN Confirmation Rejection from STRATE


The rejection from STRATE can be of two types:

Format Rejection (MT598-901).
Message Content Rejection (MT598-902).


2 Format Rejection – MT598-901


On receipt of the message (MT598-151) from NNA, STRATE will perform basic
validations. If the format of the message is not as per ‘Interface
Specification – Volume A’, then STRATE will generate a rejection message
(MT598-901) to NNA. The layout of the MT598-901 is given in Appendix C.


3 Message Content Rejection – MT598-902


On receipt of the message (MT598-151) from NNA, STRATE will perform basic
validations. If the validation is not successful, then STRATE will generate
a rejection message (MT598-902) to NNA. The layout of the MT598-902 is
given in Appendix C.


   Appendix F Request for Cancellation/De-issue of ISIN



1 ISIN Cancellation / De-Issue Request to NNA (MT598-150)


The MMI Engine will forward the validated MMI Cancellation / De-Issue
Request (MT598-150) to NNA. The layout of the MT598-150 for MMI
Cancellation / De-Issue is given below:

Format Specifications

|Sl.  |Tag |Qualifi|Name                   |M/O  |Options               |
|No   |    |er     |                       |     |                      |
|2.   |12  |       |Sub-Message Type       |M    |3!n                   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Valid Value is:       |
|     |    |       |                       |     |150                   |
|3.   |77E |       |Proprietary Message    |M    |                      |

Mandatory Sequence A General Information
|4.   |16R |       |Start of block         |M    |GENL                  |
|     |    |       |- General              |     |                      |
|5.   |23G |       |Function of the message|M    |4!c                   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Values:               |
|     |    |       |                       |     |NEWM – New Message    |
|6.   |98C |PREP   |Preparation date and   |O    |//8!n6!n              |
|     |    |       |time                   |     |                      |
|7.   |22F |INST   |Type of instruction    |M    |/STRA/4!c             |
|     |    |       |indicator              |     |Values:               |
|     |    |       |                       |     |DISS – De-Issue       |

|8.   |16S |       |End of block           |M   |GENL                    |
|     |    |       |- General              |    |                        |


End of Sequence A General Information

Mandatory Sequence B MMI Details
|9.   |16R |       |Start of block          |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |
|10.  |95R |ISSR   |Issuer's Participant    |M   |/STRA/2!a6!n            |
|     |    |       |Code                    |    |(Issuer’s Participant   |
|     |    |       |(Issuer)                |    |Code)                   |
|11.  |35B |       |Identification of       |M   |[ISIN1!e12!c]           |
|     |    |       |securities              |    |[4*35x]                 |
|     |    |       |(ISIN)                  |    |Sub-field 1 is Mandatory|
|     |    |       |                        |    |Sub-field 2 is Optional |
|12.  |36B | QISS  |Quantity Issued         |M   |//FAMT/15d(To match with|
|     |    |       |(Issued Amount)         |    |the original default    |
|     |    |       |                        |    |amount notified by      |
|     |    |       |                        |    |STRATE)(Down to 3       |
|     |    |       |                        |    |Decimals)               |


|13.  |16S |       |End of block            |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |


-----| End of Sequence B MMI Details

Field Descriptions

1.    Transaction reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the message.

2.    Sub-message Type (M): This field identifies the sub-message type
   involved in the proprietary message. The valid value is:

    ➢ 150 – ISIN Cancellation / De-Issue Request


3.    Proprietary Message (M): This field identifies that this is a
   proprietary message. This should not have any contents.


4.    Start of GENL block (M): This field identifies the start of GENL
   block and it should have a value of GENL.

5.    Function of the message (M): This field identifies the function of
   the message. The valid value is:

    ➢ NEWM – New Message.


6.    Preparation date and time (O): This field gives the preparation date
   and time of the message.

7.    Type of instruction indicator (M): This field identifies the
   instruction indicator. The valid value is:

    ➢ DISS –De-Issue of ISIN.

8.    End of GENL block (M): This field identifies the end of GENL block
   and it should have a value of GENL.

9.    Start of MMID block (M): This field identifies the start of the MMI
   Details block and it should have a value of MMID.

10.   Issuer's Participant Code (M): This field identifies the Participant
   Code of the Issuer.

11.   Identification of securities (M): This field identifies the ISIN
   information.

    ➢ Sub-Field 1 is Mandatory.
    ➢ Sub-Field 2 is Optional.


12.   Quantity Cancelled / De-Issued (M): This field identifies the
   cancelled / De-Issued amount of a financial instrument. (To match with
   the original default amount notified by STRATE)(Down to 3 Decimals)

13.   End of MMID block (M): This field identifies the end of the MMI
   Details block and should have a value of MMID.

   Appendix G ISIN Cancellation/De-issue Request Rejection from NNA



1 ISIN Cancellation Request Rejection from NNA


The rejection from NNA can be of two types:

Format Rejection (MT598-901).
Message Content Rejection (MT598-902).


2 Format Rejection – MT598-901


On receipt of the message (MT598-150) from STRATE, NNA will perform basic
validations. If the format of the message is not as per ‘Interface
Specification – Volume A’, then NNA will generate a rejection message
(MT598-901) to STRATE. The layout of the MT598-901 is given in Appendix C.


3 Message Content Rejection – MT598-902


On receipt of the message (MT598-150) from STRATE, NNA will perform basic
validations. If the validation is not successful, then NNA will generate a
rejection message (MT598-902) to STRATE. The layout of the MT598-902 is
given in Appendix C.

   Appendix H ISIN Cancellation/De-issue Confirmation from NNA



1 ISIN Cancellation/De-issue Confirmation from NNA


On receipt of the message (MT598-150) from the MMI Engine, NNA will perform
the basic validations. If the validation is successful, then NNA will
cancel the ISIN in question and generate an ISIN Cancellation Confirmation
message (MT598-151) to the MMI Engine. The layout of the MT598-151 is given
below:

Format Specifications
|Sl.  |Tag |Qualifi|Name                   |M/O  |Options               |
|No   |    |er     |                       |     |                      |
|2.   |12  |       |Sub-Message Type       |M    |3!n                   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Valid Value is:       |
|     |    |       |                       |     |151                   |
|3.   |77E |       |Proprietary Message    |M    |                      |

Mandatory Sequence A General Information
|4.   |16R |       |Start of block         |M    |GENL                  |
|     |    |       |- General              |     |                      |
|5.   |23G |       |Function of the message|M    |4!c                   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Values:               |
|     |    |       |                       |     |NEWM – New Message    |
|6.   |98C |PREP   |Preparation date and   |O    |//8!n6!n              |
|     |    |       |time                   |     |                      |
|7.   |22F |CONF   |Type of Confirmation   |M    |/STRA/4!c             |
|     |    |       |Indicator              |     |Values:               |
|     |    |       |                       |     |DISS –De-Issue        |

Repetitive Mandatory Subsequence A1 Linkages
|8.   |16R |       |Start of block          |M   |LINK                    |
|     |    |       |- Link Block            |    |                        |
|9.   |13A |LINK   |Number Identification   |M   |//3!c                   |
|     |    |       |                        |    |(Sub-message Type of the|
|     |    |       |                        |    |linked transaction; i.e.|
|     |    |       |                        |    |150)                    |
|10.  |20C |RELA   |Related Reference       |M   |//16x                   |
|     |    |       |                        |    |(Tag 20 of the original |
|     |    |       |                        |    |MT598-150)              |
|11.  |16S |       |End of block            |M   |LINK                    |
|     |    |       |- Link Block            |    |                        |


-----| End of Mandatory Subsequence A1 Linkages

|12.  |16S |       |End of block           |M   |GENL                    |
|     |    |       |- General              |    |                        |


End of Sequence A General Information

Mandatory Sequence B MMI Details
|13.  |16R |       |Start of block          |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |
|14.  |95R |ISSR   |Issuer's Participant    |M   |/STRA/2!a6!n            |
|     |    |       |Code                    |    |(Issuer’s Participant   |
|     |    |       |(Issuer)                |    |Code)                   |
|15.  |35B |       |Identification of       |M   |[ISIN1!e12!c]           |
|     |    |       |securities              |    |[4*35x]                 |
|     |    |       |(ISIN)                  |    |Sub-field 1 is Mandatory|
|     |    |       |                        |    |Sub-field 2 is Optional |
|16.  |36B |       |Quantity Issued         |M   |//FAMT/15d(Down to 3    |
|     |    |QISS   |(Issued Amount)         |    |Decimals)               |



|17.  |16S |       |End of block            |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |


-----| End of Sequence B MMI Details

Field Descriptions

1.    Transaction reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the message.

2.    Sub-message Type (M): This field identifies the sub-message type
   involved in the proprietary message. The valid value is:

    ➢ 151 – ISIN Cancellation Confirmation.


3.    Proprietary Message (M): This field identifies that this is a
   proprietary message. This should not have any contents.


4.    Start of GENL block (M): This field identifies the start of GENL
   block and it should have a value of GENL.

5.    Function of the message (M): This field identifies the function of
   the message. The valid value is:

    ➢ NEWM – New Message.


6.    Preparation date and time (O): This field gives the preparation date
   and time of the message.

7.    Type of confirmation indicator (M): This field identifies the
   instruction indicator. The valid value is:

    ➢ DISS – De-Issue.


8.    Start of link block (M): This field identifies the start of linkage
   block and it should have a value of LINK. This block is mandatory for
   ISIN Cancellation.

9.    Number Identification (M): This field identifies the Sub-Message Type
   of the linked transaction. The valid value is 150.

10.   Related Reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the original message.

11.   End of link block (M): This field identifies the end of linkage block
   and it should have a value of LINK.

12.   End of GENL block (M): This field identifies the end of GENL block
   and it should have a value of GENL.

13.   Start of MMID block (M): This field identifies the start of the MMI
   Details block and it should have a value of MMID.

14.   Issuer's Participant Code (M): This field identifies the Participant
   Code of the Issuer. This should match with the original MT598-150 sent by
   STRATE.

15.   Identification of securities (M): This field identifies the ISIN
   information.

    ➢ Sub-field 1 is mandatory.
    ➢ Sub-field 2 is optional.


16.   Quantity Cancelled / De-Issued (M): This field identifies the
   Cancelled / De-Issued amount of a financial instrument. This should match
   with the original MT598-150 sent by STRATE.(Down to 3 Decimals)



17.   End of MMID block (M): This field identifies the end of the MMI
   Details block and should have a value of MMID.
   Appendix I ISIN Cancellation/De-issue Confirmation Rejection


       from STRATE



1 ISIN Cancellation Confirmation Rejection from STRATE


The rejection from STRATE can be of two types:

Format Rejection (MT598-901).
Message Content Rejection (MT598-902).


2 Format Rejection – MT598-901


On receipt of the message (MT598-151) from NNA, STRATE will perform basic
validations. If the format of the message is not as per ‘Interface
Specification – Volume A’, then STRATE will generate a rejection message
(MT598-901) to NNA. The layout of the MT598-901 is given in Appendix C.


3 Message Content Rejection – MT598-902


On receipt of the message (MT598-151) from NNA, STRATE will perform basic
validations. If the validation is not successful, then STRATE will generate
a rejection message (MT598-902) to NNA. The layout of the MT598-902 is
given in Appendix C.

   Appendix J Request for Cancellation of ISIN on Maturity



1 ISIN Cancellation on Maturity to NNA (MT598-150)



On Maturity Date, the MMI Engine will generate a MMI Cancellation Request
(MT598-150) to NNA. The layout of the MT598-150 for MMI Cancellation on
Maturity is given below:

Format Specifications
|Sl.  |Tag |Qualifi|Name                   |M/O  |Options               |
|No   |    |er     |                       |     |                      |
|2.   |12  |       |Sub-Message Type       |M    |3!n                   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Valid Value is:       |
|     |    |       |                       |     |150                   |
|3.   |77E |       |Proprietary Message    |M    |                      |

Mandatory Sequence A General Information
|4.   |16R |       |Start of block         |M    |GENL                  |
|     |    |       |- General              |     |                      |
|5.   |23G |       |Function of the message|M    |4!c                   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |Values:               |
|     |    |       |                       |     |NEWM – New message    |
|6.   |98C |PREP   |Preparation date and   |O    |//8!n6!n              |
|     |    |       |time                   |     |                      |
|7.   |22F |INST   |Type of instruction    |M    |/STRA/4!c             |
|     |    |       |indicator              |     |Values:               |
|     |    |       |                       |     |MATU  – Maturity of   |
|     |    |       |                       |     |ISIN                  |

|8.   |16S |       |End of block           |M   |GENL                    |
|     |    |       |- General              |    |                        |


End of Sequence A General Information

Mandatory Sequence B MMI Details
|9.   |16R |       |Start of block          |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |
|10.  |95R |ISSR   |Issuer's Participant    |M   |/STRA/2!a6!n(Issuer’s   |
|     |    |       |Code                    |    |Participant Code)       |
|     |    |       |(Issuer)                |    |                        |
|11.  |35B |       |Identification of       |M   |[ISIN1!e12!c]           |
|     |    |       |securities              |    |[4*35x]                 |
|     |    |       |(ISIN)                  |    |Sub-field 1 is Mandatory|
|     |    |       |                        |    |Sub-field 2 is Optional |
|12.  |36B |QISS   |Quantity Issued         |M   |//FAMT/15d(To match with|
|     |    |       |(Issued Amount)         |    |the original default    |
|     |    |       |                        |    |amount notified by      |
|     |    |       |                        |    |STRATE)(Down to 3       |
|     |    |       |                        |    |Decimals)               |



|13.  |16S |       |End of block            |M   |MMID                    |
|     |    |       |- MMI Details           |    |                        |


-----| End of Sequence B MMI Details

Field Descriptions

1.    Transaction reference (M): This field identifies the transaction
   reference of the message.

2.    Sub-message Type (M): This field identifies the sub-message type
   involved in the proprietary message. The valid value is:

    ➢ 150 – ISIN Cancellation Request on Maturity


3.    Proprietary Message (M): This field identifies that this is a
   proprietary message. This should not have any contents.


4.    Start of GENL block (M): This field identifies the start of GENL
   block and it should have a value of GENL.

5.    Function of the message (M): This field identifies the function of
   the message. The valid value is:

    ➢ NEWM  – New Message.


6.    Preparation date and time (O): This field gives the preparation date
   and time of the message.

7.    Type of instruction indicator (M): This field identifies the
   instruction indicator. The valid value is:

    ➢ MATU – Maturity of ISIN.


8.    End of GENL block (M): This field identifies the end of GENL block
   and it should have a value of GENL.

9.    Start of MMID block (M): This field identifies the start of the MMI
   Details block and it should have a value of MMID.

10.   Issuer's Participant Code (M): This field identifies the Participant
   Code of the Issuer.

11.   Identification of securities (M): This field identifies the ISIN
   information.

    ➢ Sub-field 1is mandatory.
    ➢ Sub-field 2 is optional.


12.   Quantity Issued (M): This field identifies the Issued amount of a
   financial instrument. (To match with the original default amount notified
   by STRATE)(Down to 3 Decimals)

13.   End of MMID block (M): This field identifies the end of the MMI
   Details block and should have a value of MMID.



   Appendix K ISIN Cancellation on Maturity Rejection from NNA



1 ISIN Cancellation on Maturity Rejection from NNA


The rejection from NNA can be of two types:

Format Rejection (MT598-901).
Message Content Rejection (MT598-902).


2 Format Rejection – MT598-901


On receipt of the message (MT598-150) from STRATE, NNA will perform basic
validations. If the format of the message is not as per ‘Interface
Specification – Volume A’, then NNA will generate a rejection message
(MT598-901) to STRATE. The layout of the MT598-901 is given in Appendix C.






3 Message Content Rejection – MT598-902


On receipt of the message (MT598-150) from STRATE, NNA will perform basic
validations. If the validation is not successful, then NNA will generate a
rejection message (MT598-902) to STRATE. The layout of the MT598-902 is
given in Appendix C.




   Appendix L ISIN Front End Functionality


The front end for the monitoring of the issuance of ISINs must cater for
the following functionality:-


     21.1 BCP Requirements


A screen that Clearing & Settlement may input manual ISINs on BCP


     21.2 Manual Updates


A screen where issuers codes may be updated. Refer my previous e-mail to
STRATE.


     21.3 Rejections JSE to STRATE


A screen which reflects the rejections from the JSE to STRATE for the
previous day. This must include:-

Content error or Format error (MT 598-901 or MT 598-902)
If it is a rejection of a ISIN request, ISIN cancellation, or ISIN de-
registration
TRN reference of STRATE message
Message type (MT 598-150NEWM/ MT 598-150DISS/MT 598-150CANC)
Error code and details

At the time of rejection (real time) a e-mail must also be sent to Clearing
& Settlement advising them of the rejection with the above details.


     21.4 Rejections STRATE to JSE


A screen which reflects the rejections from STRATE to the JSE for the
previous day. This must include:-

Content error or Format error (MT 598-901 or MT 598-902)
If it is a rejection of a ISIN confirmation, ISIN cancellation
confirmation, or ISIN de-registration confirmation
TRN reference of JSE message
Message type (MT 598-150NEWM/ MT 598-150DISS/MT 598-150CANC)
Error code and details

At the time of rejection (real time) a e-mail must also be sent to Clearing
& Settlement advising them of the rejection with the above details.


     21.5 View and print issued/de-issued/matured ISINs


A screen where we can look up per ISIN.i.e.put in the ISIN and it will give
the details around the ISIN. This must include:-

ISIN Active/Cancelled/Deregistered
Date issued
Issue or issuers participant code if this cannot be catered for. See my
point 2 above and my e-mail to STRATE
ISIN number issued
Identification of securities. This would be the short code X20
Quantity issued
Coupon payment frequency
Coupon payment date
Instrument category
Maturity date
Coupon rate

A screen where ISINs issued for the previous day may be viewed and printed.
This must include:-

Date issued
Issue or issuers participant code if this cannot be catered for. See my
point 2 above and my e-mail to STRATE
ISIN number issued
Identification of securities. This would be the short code X20
Quantity issued
Coupon payment frequency
Coupon payment date
Instrument category
Maturity date
Coupon rate

A screen where ISINs cancelled for the previous day may be viewed and
printed. This must include:-

Date cancelled
Issue or issuers participant code if this cannot be catered for. See my
point 2 above and my e-mail to STRATE
ISIN number issued
Identification of securities. This would be the short code X20
Quantity issued
Instrument category
Maturity date

A screen where ISINs de-registered for the previous day may be viewed and
printed. This must include:-

Date de-registered
Issue or issuers participant code if this cannot be catered for. See my
point 2 above and my e-mail to STRATE
ISIN number issued
Identification of securities. This would be the short code X20
Quantity issued
Instrument category
Maturity date

A screen where all active ISINs can be viewed and printed. This must
include:-

Date issued
Issue or issuers participant code if this cannot be catered for. See my
point 2 above and my e-mail to STRATE
ISIN number issued
Identification of securities. This would be the short code X20
Quantity issued
Coupon payment frequency
Coupon payment date
Instrument category
Maturity date
Coupon rate

This screen must also be parameter driven so that we may request
information:-

Per issuer
Per instrument category
Per issue date
Per maturity date
Per instrument category

A screen where all cancelled ISINs can be viewed and printed. This will be
for the last 12 months due to archiving. This must include:-

Date cancelled
Issue or issuers participant code if this cannot be catered for. See my
point 2 above and my e-mail to STRATE
ISIN number issued
Identification of securities. This would be the short code X20
Quantity issued
Instrument category
Maturity date

This screen must also be parameter driven so that we may request
information:-

Per issuer
Per instrument category
Per cancelled date
Per maturity date
Per instrument category

A screen where all de-registered ISINs can be viewed and printed. This will
be for the last 12 months due to archiving. This must include:-

Date de-registered
Issue or issuers participant code if this cannot be catered for. See my
point 2 above and my e-mail to STRATE
ISIN number issued
Identification of securities. This would be the short code X20
Quantity issued
Instrument category
Maturity date

This screen must also be parameter driven so that we may request
information:-

Per issuer
Per instrument category
Per de-registration date
Per instrument category

-----------------------
[1] Source: "Money Market Dematerialisation Blueprint", December 2002
[2] Invalid means not in compliance with the JSE's ISIN Issuance Rules.

-----------------------
[pic]





                                    CSDP





                                   STRATE





                                    CSDP


                                    Buyer


                                   Trading


                                   Seller/
                                   Issuer


                                     DvP
                                   Engine


                              Buyer’s Custodian


                                   Buyer’s
                                    Bank


                                     CSD
                                     IOR


                                  Seller’s
                                    Bank


                             Seller’s Custodian

                                  JSE ISIN
                                  Issuance







2aa

2

1aa

1





                                    CSDP

                                  Issuer’s
                                    CSDP

                                     NNA

                                  Issuer /
                                   Issuing
                                    Agent

                                     MMI
                                   Engine

1





                                    CSDP

                                  Issuer’s
                                    CSDP

                                     NNA

                                  Issuer /
                                   Issuing
                                    Agent

                                     MMI
                                   Engine







2aa

2

1aa

1





                                    CSDP

                                  Issuer’s
                                    CSDP

                                     NNA

                                  Issuer /
                                   Issuing
                                    Agent

                                     MMI
                                   Engine








