 
 
 
 
All documentation, software, and data related to this project are proprietary and
copyrighted. Use is governed by the contract requirements as defined in the Michigan 
Department of Transportation contract 2007-0371. Unauthorized use of this documentation 
is a violation of law except as provided for in said contract. 
 
Copyright © 2007 Mixon/Hill of Michigan, Inc. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 
SPECIFICATION 
 
December 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared By:  
 
Mixon/Hill of Michigan, Inc. 
12980 Metcalf Avenue, Suite 470 
Overland Park, Kansas 66213 
(913) 239-8400 Phone 
(913) 239-8070 Fax 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
Table of Contents 
1 
INTRODUCTION..................................................................................................... 1 
1.1 
Document Identification..................................................................................................................... 1 
1.2 
Document Purpose.............................................................................................................................. 1 
1.3 
System Scope ....................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.4 
Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations....................................................................................... 1 
1.5 
References............................................................................................................................................ 2 
1.6 
Overview.............................................................................................................................................. 2 
2 
GENERAL DESCRIPTION.................................................................................... 3 
2.1 
Product Perspective ............................................................................................................................ 3 
2.2 
Product Functions............................................................................................................................... 4 
2.2.1 
Input Services.............................................................................................................................. 4 
2.2.2 
Dynamic Data Services ............................................................................................................... 5 
2.2.3 
Persistent Data Services .............................................................................................................. 5 
2.2.4 
Computational Services............................................................................................................... 5 
2.2.5 
Output Services ........................................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.6 
Presentation Services................................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.7 
Administrative Services............................................................................................................... 6 
2.3 
User Characteristics............................................................................................................................ 7 
2.3.1 
MDOT Organizational Structure................................................................................................. 7 
2.3.2 
Stakeholders ................................................................................................................................ 7 
2.4 
General Constraints............................................................................................................................ 9 
2.5 
Assumptions and Dependencies....................................................................................................... 10 
3 
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.............................................................................. 11 
3.1 
IS – Input Services ............................................................................................................................ 14 
3.2 
AS – Administrative Services........................................................................................................... 19 
3.3 
DD – Dynamic Data Services ........................................................................................................... 20 
3.4 
CS – Computational Services........................................................................................................... 21 
3.5 
PD – Persistent Data Services .......................................................................................................... 23 
3.6 
OS – Output Services........................................................................................................................ 24 
3.7 
PS – Presentation Services ............................................................................................................... 27 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.8 
DC – Design Constraints .................................................................................................................. 30 
3.9 
QC – Quality Characteristics........................................................................................................... 31 
3.10 
XR – External Requirements ...................................................................................................... 32 
APPENDIX A - DEFINITIONS, ACRONYMS, AND ABBREVIATIONS........... 33 
APPENDIX B - REFERENCED DOCUMENTS...................................................... 35 
APPENDIX C - SAE J2735 PROBE DATA ELEMENTS....................................... 38 
APPENDIX D - WEATHER DATA ELEMENTS FROM CLARUS..................... 41 
APPENDIX E - SAE J2354 WEATHER INFORMATION ELEMENTS.............. 47 
APPENDIX F - SAE J2354 EVENTINFORMATION ELEMENTS...................... 50 
APPENDIX G - SAE J2354 LINKTRAFFICINFORMATION ELEMENTS....... 51 
 
Table of Figures 
FIGURE 1 – DUAP SYSTEM SERVICES ................................................................................................... 4 
 
Table of Tables 
TABLE 1 – EXPLANATION OF THE REQUIREMENTS TABLES........................................................ 13 
TABLE 2 – REQUIREMENT ID FORMAT............................................................................................... 13 
TABLE 3 – INPUT SERVICES................................................................................................................... 14 
TABLE 4 – ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES ............................................................................................ 19 
TABLE 5 – DYNAMIC DATA SERVICES ............................................................................................... 20 
TABLE 6 – COMPUTATIONAL SERVICES ............................................................................................ 21 
TABLE 7 – PERSISTENT DATA SERVICES ........................................................................................... 23 
TABLE 8 – OUTPUT SERVICES............................................................................................................... 24 
TABLE 9 – PRESENTATION SERVICES................................................................................................. 27 
TABLE 10 – DESIGN CONSTRAINTS ..................................................................................................... 30 
TABLE 11 – QUALITY CHARACTERISTICS ......................................................................................... 31 
TABLE 12 – EXTERNAL REQUIREMENTS............................................................................................ 32 
 
Revision History 
Revision 
Issue Date  
Status 
Authority  Comments  
01.01 
09/12/2007 
Draft 
 
Draft for comment. 
01.02 
12/5/2007 
Final 
 
Incorporates comments on draft. 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
Electronic File 
Saved As: 06022-rq301srs0102_DUAP_SysReq_Final.doc 
 
© 2007


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
This document applies to the Michigan Department of Transportation’s 
(MDOT’s) Vehicle Infrastructure Integration (VII) Data Use Analysis and 
Processing (DUAP) System. 
1.1 
Document Identification 
The document control number for this document is contained in the document 
footer and the file name for the electronic rendition of the document is recorded in 
the table of contents for the document. 
1.2 
Document Purpose 
The purpose of this requirements specification is to provide a repository for the 
requirements governing the design of MDOT’s VII DUAP System. These 
requirements will form the basis for the design verification and validation of each 
version of the system. 
A system requirements specification states what must be accomplished to fulfill 
the vision described in a concept of operations (ConOps). It does not state how it 
is to be accomplished. This document describes each requirement and the basis 
for inclusion of that requirement. The intended audience includes decision 
makers, stakeholders, designers, and testers. 
This document may be updated periodically to reflect changes in the system 
requirements, including changes reflected in subsequent versions of the system. 
1.3 
System Scope  
A strategy is laid out in the Michigan Department of Transportation Vehicle-
Infrastructure Integration Strategic and Business Plan that focuses on partnering, 
developing, and deploying a VII infrastructure and test beds; increasing safety and 
mobility; improving asset management; developing outreach programs to better 
expose others to VII in Michigan; justifying the need for VII; and determining 
creative investment funding venues for VII activities. 
Within this context, the DUAP project will investigate and evaluate the utility of 
VII data and its integration with other transportation agency sources in enhancing 
safety, increasing mobility, and improving asset management. Tasks within 
DUAP will identify uses for the VII data, develop algorithms to use and process 
the VII data, develop prototype applications and data management software, and 
evaluate the utility of the processed data for MDOT and its partners. Data 
processing will require acquisition from a variety of sources, standardization and 
integration, storage, synthesis for particular applications, and dissemination. 
1.4 
Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations  
This document may contain terms, acronyms and abbreviations that are unfamiliar 
to the reader. A dictionary of these terms, acronyms and abbreviations can be 
found in Appendix A. 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
1.5 
References  
Full citations for the documents referenced in this System Requirements 
document can be found in Appendix B, which also includes documents that have 
not explicitly been referenced, but contain additional information relevant to the 
project. 
1.6 
Overview  
The organization and content of this document is based on the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE) standards for System 
Requirements Specifications. The requirements presented in this document are 
intended to be a complete list of the relevant desires for MDOT’s VII DUAP 
System.
Each requirement is identified by a unique number to allow the requirement to be 
referenced in future documents, providing traceability throughout the 
development process. 
The remaining sections of the document contain the requirements for the system. 
The sections and their content are as follows: 
Section 2 – General Description provides a general overview of the 
entire system and its anticipated user base. This section describes the 
general factors that affect the system and its requirements. 
Section 3 – Specific Requirements contains the detailed requirements 
developed from reference documentation and stakeholder meetings. This 
section organizes the requirements into categories that facilitate the design 
and testing process. These categories are: Functional Requirements, 
External Interface Requirements, Performance Requirements, Design 
Constraints, Quality Characteristics, and Other Requirements. 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
2 
GENERAL DESCRIPTION 
This section provides a general overview of the system and describes the general 
factors that affect the system and its requirements. This section does not state 
specific requirements, but instead is intended to make the requirements easier to 
understand by giving them context. 
2.1 
Product Perspective 
DUAP is a research program to determine how new VII data impacts safety, 
traffic operations and management, asset management, winter operations, and 
transportation planning. The program is focused on demonstration and assessment 
of data transformation and management, and DUAP system development is a 
means to that end. From a systems engineering functional viewpoint, the DUAP 
system has four high-level capabilities: 
• Collecting data 
• Consolidating the collected information 
• Converting data into information needed by transportation agencies 
• Communicating the unified information to various agencies and the public 
The DUAP system itself will be a prototype—completely functional for the 
desired demonstrations, but not necessarily intended for operational use. 
When describing a system, there are many ways to represent what the system will 
do and how it will be implemented. Each representation has its own strengths and 
limitations, but all are intended to create understanding of the system’s 
boundaries, components, and interactions. Each representation has its own set of 
basic units and interactions. One or more of these representations taken together 
describe the system architecture. 
Systems similar to the DUAP system are frequently and effectively represented as 
sets of interacting services. Each service has one or more interfaces by which the 
services interact. This representation is a very natural way of approaching a 
potentially complex system with a basic repeatable model. 
A representation based on services and interfaces inherently leads to a flexible, 
scalable, and maintainable design. With well-defined interfaces, it is possible to 
improve the functions of the system by adding services that conform to the 
interfaces, but provide new operations. Services do not unnecessarily constrain 
the physical and computational hardware to which they might be deployed. It is 
possible to scale the system by adding hardware to support the processing needs 
of new services as they are developed and deployed. Maintainability can be 
preserved by being able to update both hardware and software components while 
the system is running. 
A DUAP system based on a service-oriented architecture will then be flexible, 
scalable, and maintainable. It will be capable of handling large amounts of 
continuously streaming data. It will support current and future MDOT missions 
and goals. 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
Figure 1 is a simple (but abstract) representation of the DUAP system as a set of 
services. As shown in the figure, the basic services provided by DUAP are input, 
dynamic data, computational, persistent data, output, presentation, and 
administrative. These basic services are common to all information systems, but 
will have specific implementations for DUAP to assure that it meets the needs 
described earlier in the ConOps. 
 
Figure 1 – DUAP System Services 
2.2 
Product Functions 
2.2.1 Input Services 
The input services of the DUAP system will 
• receive probe data from individual vehicles;  
• receive traffic information from Advanced Traffic Management Systems 
(ATMS) throughout the state; 
• receive weather information from several sources; and 
• receive traveler information from Advanced Traveler Information Systems 
(ATIS) throughout the state, as well as other governmental and 
commercial sources. 
The VII Proof of Concept (POC) input service, for example, will use the X-031 
Probe Data Service interface as described by the VII Network User to Service 
Delivery Node (SDN) Subsystem document. DUAP data input services will send 
a subscription request to the Probe Data Service, to be fulfilled within the VII 
network. As infrastructure data are collected from the vehicles by the network, the 
network feeds the data continuously to the subscribed DUAP services. (U.S. 
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration. 2006.) 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
Data available to input services will vary among sources. In the case of the VII 
POC input service, for example, data expected to be available would include 
vehicle location, speed, direction of travel, acceleration, brake status, wheel angle, 
steering wheel position, and headlamp status. Weather-related observations that 
could be obtained from vehicle sensors might consist of ambient air temperature, 
air pressure, sun sensor, and fog light status. 
Input services will also receive speed, volume, and occupancy data from ATMS 
throughout the state. The Michigan Intelligent Transportation Systems (MITS) 
Center ATMS, for example, will have its own input service for collecting speed, 
volume, and occupancy, and may also obtain event descriptions and messages 
posted on changeable message signs/dynamic message signs (CMS/DMS). 
2.2.2 Dynamic Data Services 
The dynamic data services are a caching service intended to store DUAP data for 
fast access over a relatively short duration. For example, probe vehicle data is 
available from the VII SDN only long enough to fulfill the registered subscription 
data distribution needs. The DUAP system must be able to cache the data after 
input such that it remains available for downstream processing. 
2.2.3 Persistent Data Services 
Persistent data services provide longer-term storage within DUAP of both data 
collected by input services and metadata needed by DUAP services to sustain 
their operations. Archive services will store data from the dynamic data services 
to support future data analysis and management needs. Metadata services manage 
data needed by other DUAP services to 
• create a context for the probe vehicle, traffic, and weather data, and 
• describe the operation and formatting of the input, computational, output, 
and presentation services. 
2.2.4 Computational Services 
The purpose of the DUAP system’s computational services is to apply logical 
algorithms to incoming vehicle and traffic observations in order to transform 
those observations into data that is directly applicable to transportation 
management and operations processes. Computational services will operate on the 
dynamic and persistent data to perform analysis functions that derive new and 
useful information about what is occurring within the public infrastructure. 
Derived information can then be operated upon by still other services for further 
analysis. 
Many computational services are possible. A list of immediately useful 
algorithms includes: 
• Incident Detection and Location 
• Queue Length 
• Travel Time 
• Segment Aggregation 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
• Weather Condition 
• Road/Bridge Condition 
• Pothole Locator 
• Data Quality Checking 
2.2.5 Output Services 
Output services subscribe to analyzed data and format it for use by other services 
both within the DUAP system and external to it. For example, SAE J2354 XML 
formatted data can be produced as data output to be used as data input to other 
systems or ATIS that enhance public safety and provide access to the managed 
infrastructure. 
Data output services also format analyzed data for use by presentation services. 
This could be as simple as structuring data for presentation as a report on a DUAP 
Web page. It could also build informative messages to be sent to VII-participating 
vehicles. This interaction could be achieved using the X-032 interface to the 
Advisory Message Distribution Service as described in the VII National System 
Specification. 
2.2.6 Presentation Services 
Presentation Services support human interpretation of DUAP data. Due to the 
inherent flexibility in modular service implementation, presentation services—and 
the data output services that support those presentation services—can be added to 
the system as needed. 
For example, a traveler information presentation service might be expected to 
provide information on incidents and travel times through a Web page. 
Computational services—incident detection travel time calculation, and incident 
status monitoring, for example—would generate the data, and an output service 
would package the data. A presentation service, however, would create the user 
interface. Similarly, presentation services for maintenance support systems could 
be deployed to generate pavement segment maintenance priority lists, immediate 
maintenance alerts, and estimated segment roadway life expectancy from data 
created by other computational services. 
2.2.7 Administrative Services 
Administrative services will exist within the DUAP system to configure other 
services. Essentially, administrative services fulfill the role of “meta-services.” 
These services will be used to organize the sequence of execution for any of the 
other services, view logging information, and to change the operating modes of 
the system. 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
2.3 
User Characteristics 
2.3.1 MDOT Organizational Structure 
The Director of the Michigan Department of Transportation is appointed by the 
Governor. The Executive Bureau also includes a Chief Deputy Director, Chief 
Administrative Officer, and Chief Operations Officer. 
The Michigan State Transportation Commission is the policy-making body for all 
state transportation programs. The Commission consists of a six-member bi-
partisan board appointed by the governor of Michigan with the advice and consent 
of the State Senate. The Office of Commission Audit reports directly to the 
Commission and is charged with overall responsibility to supervise and conduct 
auditing activities of MDOT. 
MDOT operates in a decentralized organization composed of seven geographic 
regions, with its headquarters located in the Murray Van Wagoner Transportation 
Building in Lansing, Michigan, and has responsibilities for highways, aviation, 
and transit. 
The Asset Management Council has a goal to expand the practice of asset 
management statewide in order to more efficiently invest in Michigan’s roads and 
bridges. This is done through coordination and collaboration among the member 
agencies which include state, regional and local transportation and planning 
organizations. 
2.3.2 Stakeholders 
This section describes stakeholders who use the data gathered by the VII system. 
While each transportation agency has its own organizational structure and 
functional responsibilities, similar functions and users are present across all 
agencies. 
The gathered information must be presented to all users in “real-time”, meaning 
that the information is only valuable if it can be provided and acted upon quickly 
enough to reduce the impact of the event as it is occurring. The information also 
needs to be accurate. 
Transportation agency (TA) Operators include local, regional, and state 
transportation agencies throughout Michigan, and in adjoining jurisdictions. 
These operators have one common objective, which is to minimize the impact of 
incidents and events on the normal flow of traffic. 
In order to meet this objective, operators perform the following tasks: 
• Review major travel impacting incidents and events 
• Assess potential impact on travelers 
• Determine response actions needed 
• Monitor incident or event for status changes 
Transportation agency maintainers include local, regional, and state employees 
who maintain the roadways and bridges within their particular jurisdiction. They 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
maintain road conditions on a daily basis as well as respond to incidents to 
perform cleanup and make necessary roadway repairs. 
Transportation agency asset managers include local, regional, and state employees 
who analyze the data and information collected about the assets in their area to 
determine each agency’s annual programs and projects. Their goal is a cost-
effective use of resources within their agency. 
System administrators include local, regional, and state employees who are 
responsible for the administration of the systems. Their goal is to have all 
collected data made available for use by the other stakeholders. 
Transportation agency management includes the management personnel of the 
various local, regional, and state transportation agencies. The management 
personnel supervise the transportation agency staff working with both the raw and 
analyzed data. 
Transportation agency contractors are contract employees hired by local, regional, 
or state transportation agencies to perform a specific job within the agency. These 
contractors will work with the agency staff to meet the requirements of their 
contract. 
Travelers are all the people who use the roadways, whether driving or riding in 
private or commercial vehicles. They obtain their trip information from various 
sources and use it to prepare for their daily commute or for an extended trip. The 
trip information may be used by the traveler for determining possible delays along 
desired route(s) or choosing an alternative route or mode of transportation. 
Emergency services are staffed with trained personnel who respond to emergency 
incidents or major disasters both on and off the roadway system. Their primary 
goal is to protect themselves and the public during the response to an incident. 
The data from the roadway system will assist them initially in getting to the 
incident location. After Emergency Services personnel are on-site, the data can be 
used to help evaluate the impact of the incident on the current traffic and help 
determine if additional resources are needed. 
Researchers and university personnel assist the transportation agencies by 
analyzing the collected data based on the requirements of the particular agency for 
which they are working. The University of Michigan Transportation Research 
Institute (UMTRI) is an example of one such group. It has worked with the 
Michigan State Police Office of Highway Safety on crash investigation research. 
It is important that the data used by the researchers is accurate and complete. 
The Michigan Transportation Research Board (MTRB) is led by MDOT and is a 
voluntary advisory body to Michigan’s transportation agencies. MTRB will assist 
in the following: 
• Identifying and prioritizing transportation research needs 
• Interacting with other organizations that conduct and support research 
• Advocating the value of research to improve Michigan’s transportation 
system 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
• Promoting an exchange of information, ideas, and knowledge 
• Helping to set the direction for annual research programs 
• Evaluating annual progress 
Stakeholders in DUAP-enhanced transportation system operations are almost 
entirely the same as those involved in the current state of operations as noted 
above. 
The intent of adding new data sources is to provide a more complete dataset upon 
which the transportation agencies can base operational decisions, but there are not 
necessarily any new users of VII data within the agencies. The providers of VII 
data are, however, new stakeholders in transportation operations. 
The automobile manufacturers—original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) — 
become stakeholders in DUAP because VII data becomes available to 
transportation agencies only if those OEMs provide equipment and 
communication systems on their vehicles for transmitting the data to the VII 
network. Many of the OEMs are members of the Vehicle Infrastructure 
Integration Consortium (VIIC), which is developing the on-board equipment 
(OBE) and assisting the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) in 
development of applications for VII infrastructure and data. OEMs are in many 
cases also developing independent telematics networks from which transportation 
agencies might be able to obtain data similar to that provided through the 
USDOT/VIIC efforts. 
The VII network (and any similar independent telematics networks) will also 
introduce a network operating entity as a stakeholder to DUAP and transportation 
system operations. Once the VII field infrastructure is in place, a network 
operating entity will be needed to operate, monitor, and maintain the flow of VII 
data and the infrastructure enabling it. The operating entity’s responsibilities in 
this capacity are similar to those of a transportation agency relative to the 
transportation network. 
2.4 
General Constraints 
In its prototype DUAP applications, MDOT will be evaluating a broad range of 
data uses and analyses. Some of these evaluations will benefit from being able to 
link probe vehicle data directly to information about the vehicles on which the 
data originates. While this ability is of tremendous value in application research, 
operational policies will need to be established to protect the privacy and data 
ownership of the data originators. While the USDOT VII program is addressing 
policy issues for the VII network itself, MDOT will be faced with many of the 
same issues as it seeks to integrate VII data into its operations. 
For example, while VII probe data is “anonymized” to the extent that it is not 
associated directly with a particular vehicle or driver, there are inherent 
limitations to that anonymity. In the simplest such case, the VII-originated record 
of a vehicle’s behavior could be uniquely correlated to a particular vehicle if it 
were the only such vehicle on a roadway at a particular time and corroborated by 
other observations. While this may not be a significant policy issue during system 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
development and testing, or when every vehicle on the road is VII-enabled, it 
could become an issue in the transition—when some, but not all vehicles are so 
equipped, and are therefore more identifiable. 
The question of ownership of commingled data may become an issue for DUAP-
based information. MDOT and its partner transportation agencies currently 
subscribe to selected traffic, vehicle location, and weather information services 
that would be blended into the DUAP data streams. While the bulk of data will be 
from the VII network, other sources present opportunities for data expansion and 
validation that might be necessary for DUAP to succeed. Limitations on the use or 
redistribution of data from these third-party sources could hamper the usefulness 
of DUAP, and will need to be considered in agreements for those services. 
2.5 
Assumptions and Dependencies  
Data latency is the time delay experienced when data is sent from one point to 
another. Latency enters into the data collection process in several ways: 
• The time required for vehicle systems to collect and store vehicle data 
• The delay between the data collection and the data transmission from the 
vehicle to the roadside equipment (RSE) 
• The time required for the transmission of data from the RSE to the DUAP 
system 
• The time required for the DUAP system to process the data and publish it 
to other systems 
• The time between the DUAP processing and the transmission to the end 
systems 
While the VII data is much more timely and complete than data currently being 
processed, participants must recognize that VII data is “near real-time” data. Each 
system using DUAP data must be capable of evaluating the data based on the 
source and date/time stamps to determine the suitability of each data element for 
the intended purpose. 
Data quality may also be an issue. Vehicle sensors may be in various states of 
calibration and may even function in degraded modes. Each application using the 
VII and DUAP data will need to have the capability of assessing the quality of 
data and making appropriate use of any available data quality flags. 
Finally, the amount of data coming into DUAP from VII is highly dependent on 
the amount of data collected by each vehicle, the number of VII equipped 
vehicles, the number of RSE locations, and the frequency of encounters between 
VII equipped vehicles with RSE equipped locations. While these factors can be 
controlled during the evaluation phase of this project, only the number of RSE 
locations will be within the control of agencies during the full production roll-out 
of the system. 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3 
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS 
This section presents the detailed requirements for the Michigan Department of 
Transportation’s Vehicle Infrastructure Integration Data Use Analysis and 
Processing System and the associated institutional program necessary to achieve 
the needs and goals described by the VII DUAP System Concept of Operations. 
In this section, the requirements are divided into a number of categories as 
follows: 
• Input Services – Input Services provide the ability for DUAP to interact 
with any other system that might have data needed by DUAP. 
• Administrative Services – Administrative Services exist within the DUAP 
system to configure other services. 
• Dynamic Data Services – Dynamic Data Services are the active memory 
of DUAP. Data obtained by the Input Services are stored here for use by 
other DUAP components. 
• Computational Services – Computational Services apply logical 
algorithms to incoming vehicle and traffic observations in order to 
transform those observations into data that are directly applicable to 
transportation management and operations processes. 
• Persistent Data Services – Persistent Data Services are the long-term 
memory of DUAP. 
• Output Services – Output Services subscribe to data within DUAP 
Dynamic and Persistent Data Services and structure and format it for use 
by other services within and external to the DUAP system. 
• Presentation 
Services 
– 
Presentation 
Services 
support 
human 
interpretation of DUAP data. 
• Design Constraints – Design Constraints are imposed by existing systems, 
standards, regulations, or hardware limitations. 
• Quality Characteristics – Quality Characteristics provide requirements 
which address the general quality, usability, extensibility, flexibility, and 
maintainability of the system. 
• External Requirements – External Requirements are not part of the DUAP 
system, but include institutional requirements necessary to support the 
DUAP system. These requirements are not testable and are the 
responsibility of MDOT. 
Table 1 shows the general layout of the requirements tables, and explains the 
purpose or content of each column of the requirements table. The requirements in 
this document are a subset of the requirements information that is tracked in the 
system “Requirements Matrix”. While this document is intended to record the 
requirements that apply to a particular implementation of the product, the 
Requirements Matrix tracks all proposed requirements for the product. The 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
Matrix includes requirements that may apply to future versions of the product or 
which have been deferred due to cost or complexity. 
Table 2 shows an explanation of the requirement identification numbering system. 
Tables 3 through 15 present the requirements associated with the system services 
described above. 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
Table 1 – Explanation of the Requirements Tables 
ID 
Requirement  
Source 
Comment 
Importance 
A unique 
identifier (ID) 
used to trace 
requirements 
from 
beginning to 
end in a 
system 
development 
process. 
The text of the actual requirement. 
Requirements formulated with 
“…shall…” are direct 
requirements; those using “…shall 
be able to…” are conditioned on 
other requirements being fulfilled 
or on factors outside the control of 
the requirement’s subject. 
Source(s) for the 
requirement; 
could be a 
reference 
document or a 
“parent” 
requirement. 
Supporting text that may help 
explain the requirement, its 
importance, or the risks associated 
with implementing the 
requirement. 
 
H – indicates that it is essential to 
the DUAP system 
M – indicates that it should be 
implemented 
L – indicates “nice to have” 
D – indicates that the requirement is 
deferred 
Table 2 – Requirement ID Format 
Requirement ID Format 
Explanation of Format  
High-Level Requirement 
AA-NNN 
Detailed Requirement 
AA-NNN-UUU 
AA 
Represents the classification of the requirements within the requirements document. The following 
classifications have been used in this requirements specification: 
IS 
Input Services (Section 3.1)  
AS 
Administrative Services (Section 3.2) 
DD 
Dynamic Data Services (Section 3.3) 
CS 
Computational Services (Section 3.4) 
PD 
Persistent Data Services (Section 3.5) 
OS 
Output Services (Section 3.6) 
PS 
Presentation Services (Section 3.7) 
DC 
Design Constraints (Section 3.8)  
QC 
Quality Characteristics (Section 3.9)  
XR 
External Requirements (Section 3.10) 
 
NNN Represents the sequence number. Numbering is not necessarily sequential; gaps in the sequence leave room to 
add additional related requirements when they are discovered. 
UUU Provides unique identification. 
  
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.1 
IS – Input Services 
Input Services provide the ability for DUAP to interact with other systems providing data to DUAP. 
Table 3 – Input Services 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
IS-010 
The DUAP System shall collect probe vehicle data. 
 
ConOps § 3.2.1 
ConOps § 3.2.3 
ConOps § 4.1 
ConOps § 4.3.1 
ConOps § 4.4 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 5.2 
ConOps § 5.3 
ConOps § 5.4 
ConOps § 5.5 
The ability to collect probe 
vehicle data is one of the 
primary purposes of the 
DUAP project. 
H 
IS-010-005 
The DUAP data elements shall include probe vehicle 
data fields corresponding to the SAE J2735 format as 
enumerated in APPENDIX C - SAE J2735 Probe Data 
Elements. 
ConOps § 3.2.1 
See List in APPENDIX C - 
SAE J2735 Probe Data 
Elements for probe data 
elements to be included. 
H 
IS-010-010 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from the VII Proof of Concept (POC) Probe 
Data Service (PDS) using the X-031 interface. 
ConOps § 4.3.1 
The ability to collect probe 
vehicle data is one of the 
primary purposes of the 
DUAP project. 
H 
IS-010-015 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from the Chrysler Fast Feedback (telematics 
demonstration) fleet using the Chrysler telematics 
interface. 
ConOps § 4.2 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
H 
IS-010-020 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from Southeast Michigan Snow and Ice 
Management (SEMSIM) using the SEMSIM interface. 
ConOps § 5.2 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
M 
IS-010-030 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from Suburban Mobility Authority for 
Regional Transportation (SMART) Transit using the 
SMART Transit interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.7 
ConOps § 4.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
L 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
IS-010-040 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from The Rapid Transit using the “The 
Rapid Transit” interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.7 
ConOps § 4.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
D 
IS-010-050 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from Ann Arbor Transit using the Ann 
Arbor Transit interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.7 
ConOps § 4.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
D 
IS-010-060 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from Detroit Department of Transportation 
(DDOT) Transit using the DDOT interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.7 
ConOps § 4.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
D 
IS-010-070 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from the MDOT fleet using the MDOT 
probe vehicle data interface. 
ConOps § 3.2.2 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
M 
IS-010-080 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from truck fleets using the truck fleets’ 
interfaces. 
ConOps § 3.2.2 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
L 
IS-010-090 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect probe 
vehicle data from the car rental fleets using the car rental 
fleets’ interfaces. 
ConOps § 3.2.2 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
D 
IS-030 
The DUAP System shall be able to collect weather data. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.1 
ConOps § 3.1.1 
ConOps § 3.3 
ConOps § 4.3.1 
ConOps § 4.4 
ConOps § 5.2 
ConOps § 5.4 
ConOps § 7.1 
Inferred to be a high level 
requirement since winter 
operations is one of the key 
aspects of the DUAP project. 
H 
IS-030-022 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect weather 
data from the Road Commission for Oakland County 
(RCOC) Road Weather Information Systems (RWIS) 
using the RCOC RWIS interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.1 
ConOps § 4.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
H 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
IS-030-023 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect weather 
data from the MDOT RWIS using the MDOT RWIS 
interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.6 
ConOps § 4.1 
The MDOT RWIS system is 
currently being installed and 
should be able to provide data 
in 2008. 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
L 
IS-030-024 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect weather 
data from Michigan Department of Natural Resources 
(MDNR) weather information systems using the MDNR 
interface. 
MHI 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
L 
IS-030-026 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect weather 
data from MDOT Aeronautics Automated Weather 
Observing System (AWOS) using the AWOS interface. 
MHI 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
L 
IS-030-030 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect Clarus 
weather data as enumerated in APPENDIX D -Weather 
Data Elements from Clarus. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.6 
ConOps § 5.2 
Inferred to be a high level 
requirement since winter 
operations is one of the key 
aspects of the DUAP project. 
See list in APPENDIX D -
Weather Data Elements from 
Clarus for weather condition 
data elements to be included. 
H 
IS-030-040 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to include 
weather condition fields corresponding to the SAE J2354 
WeatherInformation structure as enumerated in 
APPENDIX E -SAE J2354 Weather Information 
Elements. 
ConOps § 3.2.1 
See list in APPENDIX E -
SAE J2354 Weather 
Information Elements for 
weather condition data 
elements to be included. 
M 
IS-040 
The DUAP System shall be able to collect 
Origin/Destination (O/D) data. 
ConOps § 3.2.2 
ConOps § 5.3 
ConOps § 5.5 
ConOps § 7.1 
Type of O/D data to be 
collected needs to be 
established. 
L 
IS-070 
The DUAP System shall collect roadway traffic data. 
ConOps § 2.3.2 
ConOps §4.1 
The ability to collect traffic 
data from multiple sources is 
one of the primary purposes 
of the DUAP project. 
H 
IS-070-003 
The DUAP data elements shall include roadway event 
information data fields corresponding to the SAE J2354 
structure as enumerated in APPENDIX F - SAE J2354 
EventInformation Elements. 
ConOps § 4.3.1 
See List in APPENDIX F - 
SAE J2354 EventInformation 
Elements for traffic data 
elements to be included. 
H 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
IS-070-005 
The DUAP Input Services shall include roadway traffic 
data fields corresponding to the SAE J2354 structure as 
enumerated in APPENDIX G - SAE J2354 
LinkTrafficInformation Elements. 
ConOps § 4.3.1 
See List in APPENDIX G - 
SAE J2354 
LinkTrafficInformation 
Elements for traffic data 
elements to be included. 
H 
IS-070-010 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect 
roadway traffic data from the MITS Center using the 
MITS traffic data interface. 
ConOps § 4.3.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
H 
IS-070-020 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect 
roadway traffic data from the Western Michigan Traffic 
Management System (WMTMS) using the WMTMS 
interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
D 
IS-070-030 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect 
roadway traffic data from the RCOC system using the 
RCOC system interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.1 
ConOps § 4.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
H 
IS-070-040 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect 
roadway traffic data from the Road Commission of 
Macomb County (RCMC) system using the RCMC 
system interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.1 
ConOps § 4.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
L 
IS-070-050 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect 
roadway traffic data from NAVTEQ Corporation’s 
Traffic.com using the Traffic.com interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.8 
Data sharing agreements may 
prevent commingling of data 
with other MDOT data 
sources. 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
L 
IS-070-060 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect 
roadway traffic data from the Traffic Monitoring System 
for Highways (TMS/H) using the TMS/H interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.2 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
L 
IS-070-070 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect traffic 
data from the Ann Arbor Traffic Management Center 
(TMC) system using the Ann Arbor TMC interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.6 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
D 
IS-070-080 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect traffic 
data from the Detroit TMC system using the Detroit 
TMC interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.6 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
D 
IS-070-090 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect traffic 
data from the Superior and Traverse City North Regions 
TMC system using the Superior and Traverse City North 
Regions TMC interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.6 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
D 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
IS-070-100 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect traffic 
data from the Statewide TMC system using the Statewide 
TMC interface. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.6 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
D 
IS-110 
The DUAP System shall be able to collect traveler 
information. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.6 
ConOps § 4.3.1 
 
L 
IS-130 
The DUAP System shall be able to collect road condition 
data. 
ConOps § 5.4 
The ability to collect road 
condition data is one of the 
primary purposes of the 
DUAP project. 
H 
IS-130-010 
The DUAP Input Services shall be able to collect road 
condition data from Traffic Management Systems (TMS) 
using the TMS interface. 
ConOps § 5.4 
ConOps § 7.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined 
in the design of the prototype. 
H 
IS-140 
The DUAP System shall be able to collect work zone 
(lane closure) data. 
 
 
H 
IS-905 
The DUAP System shall log Input Services data 
transactions. 
MHI 
 
M 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.2 
AS – Administrative Services 
Administrative Services exist within the DUAP system to configure other services and manage interfaces with users and other 
systems. 
Table 4 – Administrative Services 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
AS-020 
The DUAP System shall be able to organize the sequence 
of execution of computational modules. 
ConOps § 4.3.7 
 
H 
AS-030 
The DUAP System shall allow the system administrator 
to add, modify, and delete Input Services. 
MHI 
 
H 
AS-040 
The DUAP System shall allow the system administrator 
to add, modify, and delete Computational Services. 
MHI 
 
H 
AS-050 
The DUAP System shall allow the system administrator 
to add, modify, and delete Output Services. 
MHI 
 
H 
AS-060 
The DUAP System shall allow the system administrator 
to add, modify, and delete Presentation Services. 
MHI 
 
H 
AS-200 
The DUAP System shall restrict access to authorized 
users. 
MDOT 
 
H 
AS-210 
The DUAP System shall keep records of user access. 
MDOT 
 
H 
AS-220 
The DUAP System shall allow a system administrator to 
add, modify and delete user access rights. 
MDOT 
 
H 
AS-905 
The DUAP System shall be able to log system operations. 
MHI 
 
H 
AS-906 
The DUAP System shall log Administrative Services data 
transactions. 
MHI 
 
H 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.3 
DD – Dynamic Data Services 
Dynamic Data Services are the active memory of DUAP. Data obtained by the Input Services are stored here for use by other 
DUAP components. 
Table 5 – Dynamic Data Services 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
DD-010 
The DUAP System shall cache (both raw and derived) 
probe vehicle data. 
MHI 
See List in APPENDIX C - SAE 
J2735 Probe Data Elements for 
probe data elements to be 
included. 
H 
DD-070 
The DUAP System shall cache (both raw and derived) 
traffic data. 
MHI 
See List in APPENDIX G - SAE 
J2354 LinkTrafficInformation 
Elements for traffic data 
elements to be included. 
H 
DD-030 
The DUAP System shall cache (both raw and derived) 
road weather data. 
MHI 
See List in APPENDIX E - SAE 
J2354 Weather Information 
Elements for road weather data 
elements to be included. 
H 
DD-130 
The DUAP System shall cache (both raw and derived) 
road condition data. 
MHI 
 
H 
DD-100 
The DUAP System shall cache data only if the data 
record associates the data with its source, a geo-
referenced location, and a timestamp. 
MHI 
 
H 
DD-050 
The DUAP System shall cache data for 1 week. 
ConOps § 4.3.2 
One week allows sufficient time 
for both immediate operational 
needs and archiving processes. 
H 
DD-040 
The DUAP System shall allow data to be accessed as 
soon as it is cached. 
ConOps § 4.3.2 
 
H 
DD-905 
The DUAP System shall log Dynamic Data Services data 
transactions. 
MHI 
 
H 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.4 
CS – Computational Services 
Computational Services apply logical algorithms to incoming vehicle, traffic, weather, and roadway condition observations in 
order to transform those observations into data that are directly applicable to transportation management and operations 
processes. 
Requirements for specific computational services may be added as they are identified in future system analyses. The research 
orientation of the project and prototypical nature of the systems development make it very likely that new computational needs 
will be discovered as the project progresses. 
Table 6 – Computational Services 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
CS-010 
The DUAP System shall derive traffic data from probe 
vehicle data. 
ConOps § 3.2.3 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 5.2 
ConOps § 5.3 
The ability to collect and process 
traffic data is one of the primary 
purposes of the DUAP project. 
 
H 
CS-010-010 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive speed from probe vehicle data.  
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
H 
CS-010-020 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive congestion level based on volume to capacity from 
probe vehicle data.  
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
H 
CS-010-030 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive traffic counts from probe vehicle data.  
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
L 
CS-010-040 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive traffic distribution (occupancy) from probe vehicle 
data.  
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
L 
CS-010-050 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive freeway queue length from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
H 
CS-010-055 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive arterial queue length from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
L 
CS-010-060 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive travel time from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
H 
CS-010-070 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive turning movements from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
M 
CS-020 
The DUAP System shall be able to infer incidents from 
probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
H 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
CS-020-010 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to infer 
incident occurrences from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
H 
CS-020-020 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to infer 
incident locations from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
H 
CS-020-030 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to infer 
incident type from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
M 
CS-020-040 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to infer 
incident severity from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
M 
CS-040 
The DUAP System shall be able to derive road surface 
weather observations from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.2 
 
H 
CS-070 
The DUAP System shall be able to derive travel demand 
from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.3 
 
L 
CS-100 
The DUAP System shall be able to derive roadway 
surface conditions from probe vehicle data.  
ConOps § 4.3.4 
 
L 
CS-100-010 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive pavement surface conditions from probe vehicle 
data.  
ConOps § 4.3.4 
 
L 
CS-100-020 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive bridge surface conditions from probe vehicle data.  
ConOps § 4.3.4 
 
L 
CS-100-030 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive pothole location from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.4 
 
H 
CS-100-040 
The DUAP Computational Services shall be able to 
derive pothole severity from probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.4 
 
L 
CS-120 
The DUAP System shall be able to identify high risk 
locations. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
ConOps § 5.2 
 
M 
CS-130 
The DUAP System shall be able to calculate measures of 
effectiveness. 
ConOps § 3.1.3 
 
H 
CS-140 
The DUAP System shall be able to perform data quality 
checking. 
ConOps § 4.3.4 
 
M 
CS-905 
The DUAP System shall log Computational Services data 
transactions. 
MHI 
 
H 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.5 
PD – Persistent Data Services  
Persistent Data Services are the long-term memory of DUAP. 
Table 7 – Persistent Data Services 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
PD-020 
The DUAP System shall store geo-references for 
Michigan roadways. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.4 
 
H 
PD-030 
The DUAP System shall store DUAP system 
configuration data. 
MHI 
 
H 
PD-040 
The DUAP System shall archive cached data. 
ConOps § 4.3.3 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 5.2 
ConOps § 5.3 
ConOps § 5.4 
 
H 
PD-040-010 
The DUAP Persistent Data Services shall be able to 
archive cached (raw and derived) probe vehicle data. 
ConOps § 4.3.3 
 
 
H 
PD-040-020 
The DUAP Persistent Data Services shall be able to 
archive cached (raw and derived) traffic data. 
ConOps § 4.3.3 
 
H 
PD-040-030 
The DUAP Persistent Data Services shall be able to 
archive cached (raw and derived) roadway weather data. 
ConOps § 4.3.3 
 
H 
PD-040-040 
The DUAP Persistent Data Services shall be able to 
archive cached (raw and derived) road condition data. 
ConOps § 4.3.3 
 
H 
PD-905 
The DUAP System shall log Persistent Data Services data 
transactions. 
MHI 
 
H 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.6 
OS – Output Services  
Output Services subscribe to data within DUAP Dynamic and Persistent Data Services and structure and format it for use by 
other services within and external to the DUAP system. 
Table 8 – Output Services 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
OS-010 
The DUAP System shall publish data. 
ConOps § 4.3.5 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 5.2 
 
H 
OS-010-010 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
traveler data in SAE J2354 format as enumerated in 
Appendix E. 
ConOps § 4.3.5 
ConOps § 5.1 
See APPENDIX E - for listing 
of traveler data using the SAE 
J2354 format. 
H 
OS-010-025 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
roadway traffic information in Traffic Management Data 
Dictionary (TMDD) format. 
ConOps § 5.3 
MHI 
 
L 
OS-010-030 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
traffic data to TMS using the TMS interface format. 
ConOps § 4.1 
ConOps § 5.1 
Integrate new capabilities with 
existing applications. The 
specific format of the interface is 
to be determined in the design of 
the prototype. 
M 
OS-010-020 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish data 
to SEMSIM using the SEMSIM interface format. 
ConOps § 4.1 
ConOps § 5.2 
Integrate new capabilities with 
existing applications. The 
specific format of the interface is 
to be determined in the design of 
the prototype. 
L 
OS-010-050 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
traffic data in the VISSIM traffic analysis tool VISSIM 
interface format. 
ConOps § 4.1 
ConOps § 2.3.2 
MHI 
Integrate new capabilities with 
existing applications. The 
specific format of the interface is 
to be determined in the design of 
the prototype. 
D 
OS-010-060 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
traffic data in the Synchro traffic analysis tool Synchro 
interface format. 
ConOps § 4.1 
ConOps § 2.3.2 
MHI 
Integrate new capabilities with 
existing applications. The 
specific format of the interface is 
to be determined in the design of 
the prototype. 
D 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
OS-010-070 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
traffic data in the Paramics traffic analysis tool Paramics 
interface format. 
ConOps § 4.1 
ConOps § 2.3.2 
MHI 
Integrate new capabilities with 
existing applications. The 
specific format of the interface is 
to be determined in the design of 
the prototype. 
D 
OS-010-075 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
traffic data in the SimTraffic traffic analysis tool 
SimTraffic interface format. 
ConOps § 4.1 
ConOps § 2.3.2 
MHI 
Integrate new capabilities with 
existing applications. The 
specific format of the interface is 
to be determined in the design of 
the prototype. 
D 
OS-010-080 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
traffic management data in TMS/H interface format. 
ConOps § 4.1 
ConOps § 5.3 
Integrate new capabilities with 
existing applications. The 
specific format of the interface is 
to be determined in the design of 
the prototype. 
M 
OS-010-090 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
weather data elements as enumerated in APPENDIX D -
Weather Data Elements from Clarus output format. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.6 
See APPENDIX D -Weather 
Data Elements from Clarus for 
listing of weather data elements. 
H 
OS-010-100 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish asset 
condition data using the asset condition data interface 
format. 
ConOps § 3.1 
ConOps § 3.1.3 
ConOps § 4.1 
ConOps § 7.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined in 
the design of the prototype. 
L 
OS-020 
The DUAP System shall publish alerts. 
ConOps §4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.1 
 
 
OS-020-010 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
traffic condition alerts using the traffic condition alert 
interface format. 
ConOps § 5.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined in 
the design of the prototype. 
M 
OS-020-020 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish 
weather condition alerts using the weather condition alert 
interface format. 
ConOps § 5.2 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined in 
the design of the prototype. 
M 
OS-020-030 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish asset 
condition alerts using the asset condition alert interface 
format. 
ConOps § 5.4 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined in 
the design of the prototype. 
L 
OS-020-040 
The DUAP Output Services shall be able to publish alerts 
using the threshold exceeded alert interface format when 
thresholds have been exceeded. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.1 
ConOps § 6.1 
The specific format of the 
interface is to be determined in 
the design of the prototype. 
H 
OS-030 
The DUAP System shall publish information for the 
MDOT MI Drive presentation. 
 
 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
OS-905 
The DUAP System shall log Output Services data 
transactions. 
MHI 
 
H 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.7 
PS – Presentation Services 
Presentation Services support human interpretation of DUAP data. 
Table 9 – Presentation Services 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
PS-010 
The DUAP Presentation Services shall present data 
published by Output Services. 
ConOps § 4.3.5 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
 
H 
PS-020 
The DUAP Presentation Services shall include a user 
interface for browsing traffic information. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
 
H 
PS-020-010 
The traffic information browser shall allow a user to 
query traffic-related information using a web browser 
capable of supporting HTML 4.01, JavaScript (ECMA-
262 edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
H 
PS-020-020 
The traffic information browser shall allow a user to view 
traffic-related information using a web browser capable 
of supporting HTML 4.01, JavaScript (ECMA-262 
edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
H 
PS-020-030 
The information browsers shall provide a means for users 
to select between Metric and English units of 
measurement for display. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
MHI 
Not currently a stakeholder-
requested function. 
D 
PS-020-040 
The information browsers shall provide a map display 
which uses icons to identify the locations with associated 
data. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
MHI 
 
H 
PS-020-050 
The system map display shall provide a means to select 
which data layers are displayed. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
MHI 
 
L 
PS-020-060 
The system map display shall support each type of traffic 
item to be displayed in its own layer. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
MHI 
 
M 
PS-020-070 
The system map display shall support pan and zoom 
capabilities to allow a user to select the area to be 
displayed. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
MHI 
 
M 
PS-020-080 
The system map display shall support de-cluttering to 
reduce the number of icons displayed when large areas 
are displayed. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
MHI 
 
 
L 
PS-020-090 
The information browsers shall provide tabular 
information identifying locations with associated data. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
MHI 
 
H 
PS-020-100 
The tabular information display shall provide a means to 
select the data to be displayed. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
MHI 
 
L 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
PS-020-110 
The tabular information display shall provide a means to 
select the area to be displayed. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
MHI 
 
M 
PS-030 
The DUAP Presentation Services shall include a user 
interface for browsing incident information. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.1 
 
H 
PS-030-010 
The incident information browser shall allow a user to 
query incident-related information using a web browser 
capable of supporting HTML 4.01, JavaScript (ECMA-
262 edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.1 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
H 
PS-030-020 
The incident information browser shall allow a user to 
view incident-related information using a web browser 
capable of supporting HTML 4.01, JavaScript (ECMA-
262 edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.1 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
H 
PS-040 
The DUAP Presentation Services shall include a user 
interface for browsing traveler information. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.1 
 
M 
PS-040-010 
The traveler information browser shall allow a user to 
query traveler-related information using a web browser 
capable of supporting HTML 4.01, JavaScript (ECMA-
262 edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.1 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
M 
PS-040-020 
The traveler information browser shall allow a user to 
view traveler-related information using a web browser 
capable of supporting HTML 4.01, JavaScript (ECMA-
262 edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.1 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
M 
PS-050 
The DUAP Presentation Services shall include a user 
interface for browsing asset condition information. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.4 
ConOps § 7.1 
 
M 
PS-050-010 
The asset condition information browser shall allow a 
user to query asset condition-related information using a 
web browser capable of supporting HTML 4.01, 
JavaScript (ECMA-262 edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 7.1 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
M 
PS-050-020 
The asset condition information browser shall allow a 
user to view asset condition-related information using a 
web browser capable of supporting HTML 4.01, 
JavaScript (ECMA-262 edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 7.1 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
M 
PS-080 
The DUAP Presentation Services shall include a user 
interface for browsing weather information. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.2 
 
H 
PS-080-010 
The weather information browser shall allow a user to 
query weather-related information using a web browser 
capable of supporting HTML 4.01, JavaScript (ECMA-
262 edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.2 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
H 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Function 
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
PS-080-020 
The weather information browser shall allow a user to 
view weather-related information using a web browser 
capable of supporting HTML 4.01, JavaScript (ECMA-
262 edition 3), and XML 1.0. 
ConOps § 4.3.6 
ConOps § 5.2 
Web browsers such as Microsoft 
Internet Explorer 6.0 (and later) 
and Mozilla Firefox 2.0 (and 
later) support these capabilities. 
H 
PS-200 
The DUAP System shall require users to log in for 
system access. 
MDOT 
 
 
PS-200-010 
The DUAP Presentation Services shall require users to 
uniquely identify themselves. 
MHI 
Could be implemented, for 
example, through a username. 
 
PS-200-020 
The DUAP Presentation Services shall require users to 
confirm their identity. 
MHI 
Could be implemented, for 
example, through a password 
associated with that username. 
 
PS-905 
The DUAP System shall log Presentation Services data 
transactions. 
MHI 
 
H 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.8 
DC – Design Constraints 
This section identifies design constraints imposed by existing systems, standards, regulations, or hardware limitations. 
Table 10 – Design Constraints 
ID 
Requirement  
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
DC-010 
The DUAP System shall conform to IT standards 
established by the Michigan Department of Information 
Technology (MDIT). 
ConOps § 2.5 
ConOps § 4.6.4 
 
The software for this project will 
meet MDIT standards provided 
at the start of this project. Any 
exceptions will be documented 
and approved by MDIT before 
implementation. MDIT will be 
consulted throughout this project 
to ensure compliance with these 
standards. 
H 
DC-010-010 
The DUAP System shall use a Java software foundation. 
ConOps § 4.6.4 
 
M 
DC-010-015 
The DUAP system shall use Java Database Connectivity 
(JDBC) components to interact with databases. 
 
 
M 
DC-010-020 
The DUAP System shall be able to use Oracle 10G as the 
relational database. 
ConOps § 4.6.4 
 
M 
DC-010-030 
The DUAP System shall handle database data requests 
through standard Structured Query Language (SQL). 
Commands. 
ConOps § 4.6.4 
 
H 
DC-040 
 
The DUAP System shall use Michigan Geographic 
Framework geo-references. 
ConOps § 2.3.2.4 
ConOps § 4.1 
Section 2 of the ConOps 
provides a description of the 
existing systems and interfaces. 
This standard is listed as a part 
of that description. 
H 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.9 
QC – Quality Characteristics 
Quality Characteristics provide requirements which address the general quality, usability, extensibility, flexibility, and 
maintainability of the system. 
Table 11 – Quality Characteristics 
ID 
Requirement  
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
QC-020 
The DUAP System shall be capable of adding new data 
sources. 
ConOps § 3.2.3 
Access could only be provided 
when new data sources are 
established and available. 
L 
QC-030 
The DUAP System shall be capable of adding new 
computational algorithms. 
ConOps § 3.2.3 
Access could only be provided 
when new algorithms are 
established and available. 
L 
QC-040 
The DUAP System shall be capable of adding new output 
formats of published data. 
ConOps § 3.2.3 
Access could only be provided 
when new communication 
formats are established and 
available. 
L 
QC-050 
The DUAP System shall be capable of adding new 
presentations of published data. 
ConOps § 3.2.3 
Access could only be provided 
when new user interface needs 
are established and available. 
L 
 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
3.10 XR – External Requirements 
External Requirements are not part of the DUAP system, but include institutional requirements necessary to support the DUAP 
system. These requirements are not testable and are the responsibility of MDOT. 
Table 12 – External Requirements 
ID 
Requirement  
Source 
Comments 
Importance 
XR-100 
Access to the DUAP system shall be limited to users 
authorized by MDOT. 
ConOps § 4.4 
 
H 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
APPENDIX A - DEFINITIONS, ACRONYMS, AND 
ABBREVIATIONS 
The following table provides the definitions of all terms, acronyms, and 
abbreviations required to properly interpret this Concept of Operations. 
Term 
Definition 
ATIS 
Advanced Traveler Information System 
ATMS 
Advanced Traffic Management System 
AWOS 
Automated Weather Observing System 
CGI 
Center for Geographic Information 
Clarus 
The Clarus (which is Latin for “clear”) System is an 
integrated surface transportation weather observing, 
forecasting, and data management system.  
CMS 
Changeable Message Sign 
ConOps 
Concept of Operations 
DDOT 
Detroit Department of Transportation 
DMS 
Dynamic Message Sign 
MDNR 
Michigan Department of Natural Resources 
DUAP 
Data Use Analysis and Processing 
ESS 
Environmental Sensor Station 
FHWA 
Federal Highway Administration 
HTML 
Hyper Text Markup Language 
ID 
Identifier 
IEEE 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. 
ITS 
Intelligent Transportation Systems 
JDBC 
Java Database Connectivity 
MDIT 
Michigan Department of Information Technology 
MDOT 
Michigan Department of Transportation 
MGF 
Michigan Geographic Framework 
MHI 
Mixon/Hill of Michigan, Inc. 
MITS 
Michigan Intelligent Transportation Systems 
MTRB 
Michigan Transportation Research Board 
NCAR 
National Center for Atmospheric Research 
O/D 
Origin / Destination 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
Term 
Definition 
OBE 
On-Board Equipment 
OEM 
Original Equipment Manufacturer 
PDS 
Probe Data Service 
POC 
Proof of Concept 
RCMC 
Road Commission of Macomb County 
RCOC 
Road Commission for Oakland County 
RSE 
Roadside Equipment 
RWIS 
Road Weather Information Systems 
SAE 
An organization formerly known as Society of Automotive 
Engineers, now known as SAE International 
SDN 
Service Delivery Node 
SEMCOG 
Southeast Michigan Council of Governments 
SEMSIM 
Southeast Michigan Snow and Ice Management 
SMART 
Suburban Mobility Authority for Regional Transportation 
SQL 
Structured Query Language 
TA 
Transportation Agency 
TMC 
Traffic Management Center 
TMDD 
Traffic Management Data Dictionary 
TMS 
Transportation Management System 
TMS/H 
Traffic Monitoring System for Highways 
UMTRI 
University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute 
USDOT 
United States Department of Transportation 
VII 
Vehicle Infrastructure Integration 
VIIC 
Vehicle Infrastructure Integration Consortium 
WMTMS 
Western Michigan Traffic Management System 
XML 
eXtensible Markup Language 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
APPENDIX B - REFERENCED DOCUMENTS 
The following documents contain additional information pertaining to this project 
or have been referenced within this document: 
Forkenbrock, David M. 2005. Financing Local Roads: Current Problems 
and a New Paradigm, Washington, D.C.: Transportation Research 
Board. 
Fremont Area Chamber of Commerce. Baby Food Festival!. Fremont 
Area Chamber of Commerce. http://www.babyfoodfest.com/ 
(accessed May 4, 2007). 
Harichandran, Ronald S. Michigan Transportation Research Board 
(MTRB) Introduction. Michigan Transportation Research Board. 
http://www.michigan.gov/documents/MDOT_MTRB_Intro_135645
_7.pdf (accessed May 4, 2007). 
IEEE Guide for Developing System Requirements Specifications. IEEE 
Std 1233-1998. 
IEEE Recommended Practice for Software Requirements Specifications. 
IEEE Std 830-1998. 
Mahoney, William P., Kevin R. Petty, and Richard R. Wagoner. Weather 
& Road Condition Product Improvements Enabled by Vehicle 
Infrastructure Integration (VII). National Council for Atmospheric 
Research. 
www.rap.ucar.edu/projects/vii/PresWrkShop1/Wx&Road%20Condit
ion_Improvements_VII_Mahoney.ppt (accessed September 5, 
2007). 
Michigan Department of Information Technology, Center for Geographic 
Information (CGI). CGI — Michigan Geographic Framework 
Network. Michigan Department of Information Technology. 
http://www.michigan.gov/cgi/0,1607,7-158-12618-31485--,00.html 
(accessed May 2, 2007). 
Michigan Department of Information Technology. DIT — Policies & 
Standards. Michigan Department of Information Technology. 
http://www.michigan.gov/dit/0,1607,7-139-34305---,00.html 
(accessed May 11, 2007). 
Michigan Department of Transportation. 2006. Vehicle-Infrastructure 
Integration History and Background. Lansing: Michigan 
Department of Transportation. 
Michigan Department of Transportation. MDOT — Asset Management 
at MDOT. Michigan Department of Transportation. 
http://www.michigan.gov/mdot/0,1607,7-151-9621_15757-25283--
,00.html (accessed May 11, 2007). 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
Michigan Department of Transportation. Michigan Department of 
Transportation Mission, Vision, and Values. Michigan Department 
of Transportation. http://www.michigan.gov/mdot/0,1607,7-151-
9623-65024--,00.html (accessed May 3, 2007). 
Michigan Department of Transportation. Michigan Department of 
Transportation Vehicle-Infrastructure Integration Strategic and 
Business Plan Vision of Partnership and National Leadership. 
Michigan Department of Transportation. 
http://www.michigan.gov/documents/mdot/MDOT-
2007_VII_Strategic_Plan_182837_7.pdf (accessed January 9, 2007). 
National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). 2006. Weather 
Applications and Products Enabled Through Vehicle Infrastructure 
Integration (VII), v.3.0. Boulder: National Center for Atmospheric 
Research. 
Oregon Department of Transportation. Office of Innovative Partnerships 
and Alternative Funding Road User Fee Pilot Program. Oregon 
Department of Transportation. 
http://www.oregon.gov/ODOT/HWY/OIPP/mileage.shtml (accessed 
May 3, 2007). 
Road Commission for Oakland County. Welcome to RCOC Online—
Commuter Info. Road Commission for Oakland County. 
http://www.rcocweb.org/commuter/fasttrac.asp (accessed May 4, 
2007). 
Southeast Michigan Council of Governments Information Services. 2006. 
MDOT Freeway Courtesy Patrol in Southeast Michigan: 2005 
Evaluation Report, Southeast Michigan Council of Governments 
(SEMCOG). 
Southeastern Michigan Snow and Ice Management. SEMSIM: 
Technologies, Southeastern Michigan Snow and Ice Management. 
http://www.rcocweb.org/home/semsim.asp?page=tech (accessed 
May 3, 2007). 
State of Michigan. Project Management Methodology Orientation. State 
of Michigan. http://www.michigan.gov/documents/ 
PMM_For_SOM_Vendors_v4_127338_7.ppt (accessed May 3, 
2007). 
State of Michigan. Systems Engineering Methodology Version 1.0 — 
The Systems Engineering Methodology (SEM) of the State Unified 
Information Technology Environment (SUITE). State of Michigan. 
http://www.michigan.gov/documents/suite/ 
SEM_Version_1.0_April_2007_191710_7.pdf (accessed May 3, 
2007). 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
U.S. Department of Transportation National ITS Architecture. SAE 
J2735: Dedicated Short Range Communications (DSRC) Message 
Set Dictionary.  U.S. Department of Transportation. 
http://www.iteris.com/itsarch/html/standard/saej2735.htm (accessed 
September 5, 2007). 
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration 
(FHWA). Managing Travel for Planned Special Events.  Federal 
Highway Administration Final Report, September 2003.  Federal 
Highway Administration. http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/program_areas/sp-
events-mgmt/handbook/handbook.pdf (accessed September 5, 
2007). 
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration. 
Transportation Asset Management Case Studies: Data Integration: 
The Michigan Experience. Federal Highway Administration. 
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/infrastructure/asstmgmt/dimi.pdf (accessed 
September 5, 2007). 
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration. 
VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE INTEGRATION (VII) — VII 
Architecture and Functional Requirements, Version 1, April 12, 
2005. ITS Joint Program Office, U.S. Department of Transportation. 
http://www.rap.ucar.edu/projects/vii/docs/VIIArchandFuncRequire
ments.pdf (accessed September 5, 2007). 
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration. 
2005. VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE INTEGRATION (VII) VII 
Architecture and Functional Requirements, Version 1.1, 
http://www.vehicle-infrastructure.org/documents/ 
VII%20Architecture%20version%201%201%202005_07_20.pdf, 
ITS Joint Program Office, U.S. Department of Transportation 
(accessed September 5, 2007). 
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration. 
2006. VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE INTEGRATION (VII) 
Network User to Service Delivery Node Subsystem [X-031, X-032, 
X-033] Software Interface Requirements Specification, Version 1.00-
Final. November 2, 2006. Washington, D.C. U.S. Department of 
Transportation. 
Wunderlich, Karl, VII Data Characteristics for Traffic Management: 
Task Overview and Update. Mitretek Systems. 
http://www.rap.ucar.edu/projects/vii/PresWrkShop2/VII%20DC%20
Overview%20(Wunderlich%20for%20Boulder).ppt (accessed 
September 5, 2007). 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
APPENDIX C - SAE J2735 PROBE DATA ELEMENTS 
The DUAP system shall be capable of storing the following data elements: 
ID 
Element 
Description 
IS-010-500 
Probe Segment Number 
Identifier of related probe data snapshots 
IS-010-510 
Time 
Local time 
IS-010-520 
Date 
Local date 
IS-010-530 
Time Confidence 
95% confidence level for the currently 
reported value of time 
IS-010-540 
Latitude 
Latitude of the center of the vehicle  
IS-010-550 
Longitude 
Longitude of the center of the vehicle  
IS-010-560 
Elevation 
Elevation of the center of the vehicle 
IS-010-570 
Positioning Confidence 
95% confidence level for the currently 
reported value of positioning entries 
IS-010-580 
Heading 
Current heading of the vehicle 
IS-010-590 
Speed 
Current vehicle speed 
IS-010-600 
Speed & Heading 
Confidence 
95% confidence level for the currently 
reported values of Speed and Heading. 
IS-010-610 
Air Temperature 
Ambient air temperature 
IS-010-620 
Wiper Status 
Indication of wiper status. Settings could 
be: not equipped, off, intermittent, low, 
high, or automatic 
IS-010-630 
Wipers Rate 
Number of wiper sweeps per minute 
IS-010-640 
Vehicle Exterior Lights 
Status of exterior lights. Settings could be: 
parking lights, headlights (low and high 
beam, automatic light control), fog lights, 
daytime running lights, turn signals 
(right/left), and hazard signals 
IS-010-650 
Rain Sensor 
Rain/snow intensity. The value of the Rain 
Sensor data element ranges from 0-7, with 
0 indicating "No Rain/Snow", 1 indicating 
"Light Mist", and 7 indicating "Heavy 
Downpour" 
IS-010-660 
Sun Sensor 
Level of sunlight. The value of the Sun 
Sensor data element ranges from 0-7, with 
0 indicating "Complete Darkness", 1 
indicating "Minimal Sun Light", and 7 
indicating "Maximum Sun Light" 
IS-010-670 
Traction Control 
Indication of whether one or more of the 
vehicle's drive wheels was slipping during 
an acceleration. Values could indicate no 
traction control system, or whether the 
system is off, on, or engaged 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
IS-010-680 
Stability Control 
Indication of whether the vehicle’s 
stability control system is activated 
because of the vehicle being too far off-
axis during a turn. Values could indicate 
no stability control, or whether the system 
is off or active 
IS-010-690 
Anti-Lock Brakes 
Indication of whether the vehicle’s anti-
lock brake system is on due to an extreme 
braking condition or a slippery roadway 
condition. Values could be not equipped, 
off, on, or engaged 
IS-010-700 
Wheel that Exceeded 
Vertical Acceleration 
threshold 
Indication of which wheel exceeded a 
threshold of percent change in vertical G 
acceleration per second. Values could be 
All Off (or not equipped), or which wheel 
triggered the event 
IS-010-710 
Vertical Acceleration 
Vehicle’s vertical G acceleration per 
second 
IS-010-720 
Brake Applied 
Wheel braking status. Values could 
indicate whether all brakes are off, which 
wheel brakes are applied, or whether all 
brakes are applied 
IS-010-730 
Steering Wheel Angle 
Angle relative to straight that the steering 
wheel is turned 
IS-010-740 
Steering Wheel Angle 
Rate of Change 
Rate of change of the steering wheel angle 
IS-010-750 
Longitudinal 
Acceleration 
Acceleration along the X axis or the 
vehicle's direction of travel in parallel with 
a front to rear centerline. Negative values 
indicate braking action 
IS-010-760 
Lateral Acceleration 
Acceleration along the Y axis or 
perpendicular to the vehicle's direction of 
travel in parallel with a left-to-right 
centerline. Negative values indicate left 
turning action and positive values indicate 
right turning action 
IS-010-770 
Obstacle Distance 
Indicates the presence of an obstacle and 
its measured distance from the vehicle 
detecting and reporting the obstacle 
IS-010-780 
Obstacle Direction 
Indicates the obstacle direction from the 
vehicle to an obstacle. The data is 
expressed in degrees as azimuth relative to 
forward direction of vehicle 
IS-010-790 
Yaw Rate 
Amount of rotation about vehicle's 
longitudinal axis within a certain time 
period 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
IS-010-800 
100% Brake Boost 
Applied 
Indication of emergency braking. This data 
element is an on/off value which indicates 
engagement of the vehicle's brake boost 
assist function  
IS-010-810 
Barometric (Ambient) 
Pressure 
Barometric pressure: ranging from 580 hPa 
to 1,090 hPa with a resolution of 2 hPa 
IS-010-820 
Tire Pressure 
Provides Tire Pressure for up to 4 Tires 
each with a range of 1 to 255 PSI 
IS-010-830 
Tire Pressure 
Monitoring System 
Indication of whether the vehicle’s tire 
pressure monitoring system is activated. 
Values could indicate no monitoring 
system, or whether the system is off or 
active 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
APPENDIX D - WEATHER DATA ELEMENTS FROM 
CLARUS 
The DUAP system shall be capable of storing the following weather data 
elements from Clarus: 
ID 
Element 
Description 
Units 
IS-030-200 
essLatitude 
Latitude of the 
Environmental Sensor 
Station (ESS) 
[observation] per WGS-
84 datum 
10^-6 degrees 
IS-030-210 
essLongitude 
East longitude from the 
Prime Meridian of the 
ESS [observation] 
10^-6 degrees 
IS-030-220 
essVehicleSpeed 
Current speed being 
reported by the vehicle 
km/hr 
IS-030-230 
essVehicleBearing 
Current bearing of the 
vehicle 
degrees 
clockwise 
from true 
North 
IS-030-240 
essVehicleOdometer 
Current odometer reading 
of the vehicle 
meters 
IS-030-250 
essReferenceHeight 
Reference elevation of the 
ESS; height to base of 
station for permanent ESS 
height to the ground 
surface upon which the 
ESS resides for 
transportable ESS, or 
height to surface under 
vehicle for mobile ESS 
meters above 
mean sea 
level 
IS-030-260 
essAtmosphericPressure 
Force per unit area 
exerted by the atmosphere 
10^-1 
millibars, or 
10^-1 
hectopascals 
IS-030-270 
windSensorAvgSpeed 
Two-min. average of the 
wind speed 
10^-1 meters 
per second 
IS-030-280 
windSensorAvgDirection 
Two-min. average of 
wind direction (CW from 
North) 
degrees 
clockwise 
from true 
North 
IS-030-290 
windSensorSpotSpeed 
Instantaneous wind speed 
10^-1 meters 
per second 
IS-030-300 
windSensorSpotDirection 
Instantaneous wind 
direction (CW from 
North) 
degrees 
clockwise 
from true 
North 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
Units 
IS-030-310 
windSensorGustSpeed 
Maximum wind gust 
recorded during preceding 
10 min. 
10^-1 meters 
per second 
IS-030-320 
windSensorGustDirection 
Direction of max. wind 
gust during preceding 10 
min. 
degrees 
clockwise 
from true 
North 
IS-030-330 
windSensorSituation 
Describes the weather and 
travel situation in terms of 
wind from staffed stations 
only. Specific ranges for 
these values are defined in 
the Glossary of 
Meteorology 
integer 
IS-030-340 
essAirTemperature 
Instantaneous dry-bulb 
temperature 
10^-1 degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-350 
essWetBulbTemp 
Instantaneous wet-bulb 
temperature 
10^-1 degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-360 
essDewpointTemp 
Instantaneous dewpoint 
temperature 
10^-1 degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-370 
essMaxTemp 
Maximum air temperature 
during preceding 24 hours 
10^-1 degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-380 
essMinTemp 
Minimum air temperature 
during preceding 24 hours 
10^-1 degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-390 
essRelativeHumidity 
Relative humidity 
percent 
IS-030-400 
essAdjacentSnowDepth 
Depth of undrifted & 
unplowed snow off 
roadways 
centimeters 
IS-030-410 
essRoadwaySnowDepth 
Depth of unpacked snow 
on roadway surface 
centimeters 
IS-030-420 
essRoadwaySnowpackDepth 
Depth of packed snow on 
roadway surface 
centimeters 
IS-030-430 
essPrecipYesNo 
Indicates whether or not 
precip is detected: (1) 
precip; (2) noPrecip; (3) 
error 
integer 
IS-030-440 
essPrecipRate 
Rate of rainfall or water 
equivalent of snow 
10^-1 grams 
per sq. meter 
per second 
IS-030-450 
essSnowfallAccumRate 
Rate of snowfall 
accumulation 
10^-7 meters 
per second 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
Units 
IS-030-460 
essPrecipSituation 
Description of 
precipitation type & 
intensity; see NTCIP 
1204 for validation rules 
and text mapping 
integer 
IS-030-470 
essIceThickness 
Thickness of the ice 
millimeters 
IS-030-480 
essPrecipitationStartTime 
Time when most recent 
precipitation event began 
seconds since 
00:00:00 Jan 
1, 1970 UTC 
IS-030-490 
essPrecipitationEndTime 
Time when most recent 
precipitation event ended 
seconds since 
00:00:00 Jan 
1, 1970 UTC 
IS-030-500 
essPrecipitationOneHour 
Total water equivalent 
precipitation over 
preceding 1 hr 
10^-1 kg per 
sq meter 
IS-030-510 
essPrecipitationThreeHours 
Total water equivalent 
precipitation over 
preceding 3 hrs 
10^-1 kg per 
sq meter 
IS-030-520 
essPrecipitationSixHours 
Total water equivalent 
precipitation over 
preceding 6 hrs 
10^-1 kg per 
sq meter 
IS-030-530 
essPrecipitationTwelveHours 
Total water equivalent 
precipitation over 
preceding 12 hrs 
10^-1 kg per 
sq meter 
IS-030-540 
essPrecipitation24Hours 
Total water equivalent 
precipitation over 
preceding 24 hrs 
10^-1 kg per 
sq meter 
IS-030-550 
waterLevelSensorReading 
Depth of the water from a 
user-defined point 
centimeters 
IS-030-560 
essTotalSun 
Total amount of sunshine 
during preceding 24 hrs 
minutes 
IS-030-570 
essCloudSituation 
Description of amount of 
cloud cover; see NTCIP 
1204 for validation rules 
and text mapping 
integer 
IS-030-580 
essTotalRadiation 
Average total radiation 
during the radiation 
period 
joules per sq 
meter 
IS-030-590 
essTotalRadiationPeriod 
Length of time 
essTotalRadiation is 
averaged [i.e., 
accumulated] 
seconds 
IS-030-600 
essVisibility 
Surface visibility 
10^-1 meters 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
Units 
IS-030-610 
essVisibilitySituation 
Describes visibility of 
travel environment; see 
NTCIP 1204 for 
validation rules and text 
mapping 
integer 
IS-030-620 
essSurfaceStatus 
Describes pavement 
surface status; see NTCIP 
1204 for validation rules 
and text mapping 
integer 
IS-030-630 
essSurfaceTemperature 
Current pavement surface 
temperature 
10^-1 degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-640 
essPavementTemperature 
Current pavement temp. 
2-10 cm below surface, 
specifically at 
pavementSensorTemperat
ureDepth 
10^-1 degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-650 
essSurfaceSalinity 
Pavement [surface] 
salinity 
parts per one 
hundred 
thousand by 
weight 
IS-030-660 
essSurfaceFreezePoint 
Solution freeze point 
temperature 
10^-1 degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-670 
essSurfaceBlackIceSignal 
Indicates whether or not 
black ice is detected; see 
NTCIP 1204 for data 
validation and mapping 
integer 
IS-030-680 
essPavementSensorError 
Type of pavement sensor 
error; see NTCIP 1204 for 
data validation and 
mapping 
integer 
IS-030-690 
essSurfaceIceOrWaterDepth 
Current ice thickness or 
water depth on roadway 
surface 
10^-1 
millimeters 
IS-030-700 
essSurfaceConductivityV2 
Conductivity of the 
ice/liquid mixture on the 
pavement as detected by 
the sensor 
10^-1 
millimhos/cm 
IS-030-710 
pavementSensorTemperatureDepth 
Depth at which the 
pavement temperature is 
detected 
centimeters 
IS-030-720 
essSubSurfaceTemperature 
Current sub-surface 
temperature 
10^-1 degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-730 
essSubSurfaceMoisture 
Sub-surface moisture 
expressed as a percentage 
(e.g., 0 indicates dry, 100 
indicates saturated) 
percent 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
Units 
IS-030-740 
essSubSurfaceSensorError 
Type of sensor error; see 
NTCIP 1204 for data 
validation and mapping 
integer 
IS-030-750 
essMobileFriction 
Measured coefficient of 
friction 
percent 
IS-030-760 
essMobileObservationGroundState 
Prevailing observed 
ground state of the 
surrounding environment 
as determined by the 
observer; an indicator of 
past weather conditions; 
see NTCIP 1204 for data 
validation and mapping 
integer 
IS-030-770 
essMobileObservationPavement 
Prevailing observed 
conditions on the driving 
surface as determined by 
the observer; see NTCIP 
1204 for data validation 
and mapping 
integer 
IS-030-780 
essPaveTreatProductType 
Type of treatment being 
applied to the road; see 
NTCIP 1204 for data 
validation and mapping 
integer 
IS-030-790 
essPaveTreatProductForm 
Condition of the treatment 
being applied to the road; 
see NTCIP 1204 for data 
validation and mapping 
integer 
IS-030-800 
essPercentProductMix 
Percentage of the total 
application mix by weight 
that is of the type 
specified in 
essPaveTreatProductType 
percent 
IS-030-810 
essPaveTreatmentAmount 
Quantity of the treatment 
being applied 
kg per lane 
km 
IS-030-820 
essPaveTreatmentWidth 
Width of the spread of 
treatment 
meters 
IS-030-830 
essCO 
Concentration of carbon 
monoxide in the air 
ppm 
IS-030-840 
essCO2 
Concentration of carbon 
dioxide in the air 
ppb 
IS-030-845 
essNO 
Concentration of nitrous 
oxide in the air 
ppm 
IS-030-850 
essNO2 
Concentration of nitrous 
dioxide in the air 
ppb 
IS-030-855 
essSO2 
Concentration of sulfur 
dioxide in the air 
ppb 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
Units 
IS-030-860 
essO3 
Concentration of ozone in 
the air 
parts per one 
hundred 
billion 
IS-030-865 
icePercent 
Percent of ice cover on 
roadway 
percent 
IS-030-870 
precip10min 
Total water equivalent 
precipitation over 
preceding 10 min 
tenths of 
kilograms per 
square meter 
IS-030-875 
precipIntensity 
Description of 
precipitation intensity 
 
IS-030-880 
precipType 
Description of 
precipitation type 
 
IS-030-885 
essInstantaneousSolarRadiation 
The instantaneous 
ultraviolet, visible, and 
near-infrared (wavelength 
of less than 3.0 
micrometers) radiation 
hitting the earth's surface 
in watts per square meter 
watts per 
square meter 
 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
APPENDIX E - SAE J2354 WEATHER INFORMATION 
ELEMENTS 
The DUAP system shall be capable of storing the following data elements for 
each weather condition item received from SAE J2354 providers: 
ID 
Element 
Description 
IS-030-901 
id 
Unique identifier 
IS-030-902 
reference 
Reference identifier 
IS-030-903 
issuingAgency 
Name of reporting agency 
IS-030-904 
updateTime 
Date/timestamp indicating when the item was 
updated by the issuing agency 
IS-030-905 
location 
Geographic location description 
IS-030-906 
altLocType 
Alternate location data 
IS-030-907 
elevationsAbove 
Indicate whether the information reported applies 
to elevations above the given elevation 
IS-030-908 
elevationsBelow 
Indicate whether the information reported applies 
to elevations below the given elevation 
IS-030-909 
isForecast 
Indicate whether the date/timestamps are 
forecasted or absolute 
IS-030-910 
coverageTime 
Date/timestamp indicating the coverage time 
IS-030-911 
forecastExpires 
Date/timestamp indicating the forecasted 
expiration time 
IS-030-912 
tempSummary 
Temperature summary 
IS-030-913 
tempQualifiers 
Temperature qualifier 
IS-030-914 
highTemp 
High temperature in tenths of degree Celsius 
IS-030-915 
lowTemp 
Low temperature in tenths of degree Celsius 
IS-030-916 
currTemp 
Current temperature in tenths of degree Celsius 
IS-030-917 
conditions 
Weather conditions 
IS-030-918 
sunriseTime 
Sunrise time 
IS-030-919 
sunsetTime 
Sunset time 
IS-030-920 
skyConditions 
Sky conditions 
IS-030-921 
cloudPercent 
Amount of cloud cover 
IS-030-922 
visibilityLevel 
Visibility level 
IS-030-923 
visibilityQualifier 
Visibility qualifier 
IS-030-924 
visibility 
Surface visibility in tenths of a meter 
IS-030-925 
windsType 
Type of winds 
IS-030-926 
windDirection 
Wind direction 
IS-030-927 
windAngle 
Wind angle in degrees 
IS-030-928 
windSpeed 
Wind speed in tenths of meters per second 
IS-030-929 
windGustSpeed 
Wind gust speed in tenths of meters per second 
IS-030-930 
precipitationProbability 
Precipitation probability 
IS-030-931 
precipitation 
Precipitation type 
IS-030-932 
humidity 
Relative humidity in percent 
IS-030-933 
snowDepth 
Current depth of unpacked snow in centimeters 
IS-030-934 
snowPack 
Current depth of packed snow in centimeters 
IS-030-935 
snowFall 
Snowfall accumulation rate in 10-7 meters per 
second 
IS-030-936 
snowOffRoad 
Depth of snow in centimeters on representative 
areas other than the highway pavement 
IS-030-937 
iceThickness 
Thickness of ice in millimeters 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
IS-030-938 
blackIce 
Indication of the amount of black ice on the 
roadway 
IS-030-939 
freezePoint 
Temperature at which the existing solution on the 
roadway will freeze, in tenths of degrees Celsius 
IS-030-940 
rain24hrs 
Total water equivalent precipitation over the 24 
hours preceding the observation in tenths of 
kilograms per square meter 
IS-030-941 
rain1Hr 
Total water equivalent precipitation over the hour 
preceding the observation in tenths of kilograms 
per square meter 
IS-030-942 
rainRate 
Rainfall, or water equivalent of snow, rate in tenths 
of grams per square meter per second 
IS-030-943 
precipSituation 
Weather situation in terms of precipitation 
IS-030-944 
precipYesNo 
Indication that moisture has been detected by the 
sensor 
IS-030-945 
waterDepth 
Depth of the water in centimeters 
IS-030-946 
surfaceWaterDepth 
Current depth of water on the surface of the 
roadway measured in millimeters 
IS-030-947 
precipStart 
Date/timestamp at which the precipitation started 
IS-030-948 
precipEnd 
Date/timestamp at which the precipitation ended 
IS-030-949 
smogAlert 
Smog alert indicator 
IS-030-950 
airQualityIndex 
Air quality index 
IS-030-951 
carbonMonoxide 
Concentration of carbon monoxide in the air, 
measured in parts per million 
IS-030-952 
carbonDioxide 
Concentration of carbon dioxide in the air, 
measured in parts per billion 
IS-030-953 
hydroCarbon 
Concentration of hydrocarbon in the air, measured 
in parts per million 
IS-030-954 
sulfurDioxide 
Concentration of sulfur dioxide in the air, 
measured in parts per billion 
IS-030-955 
nitricOxide 
Concentration of nitrous oxide in the air, measured 
in parts per million 
IS-030-956 
nitrousDioxide 
Concentration of nitrogen dioxide in the air, 
measured in parts per billion 
IS-030-957 
particulate 
Concentration of small particulate matter of 10 
micrograms per cubic meter micrometers or less in 
diameter in the air, measured in parts per million 
micrograms per cubic meter 
IS-030-958 
ozone 
Concentration of ozone in the air, measured in 
parts per one hundred billion 
IS-030-959 
uvLevel 
Ultraviolet index 
IS-030-960 
airQuality 
Air quality 
IS-030-961 
airQualifier 
Air quality qualifier 
IS-030-962 
levelOfService 
Qualitative measure describing operational 
conditions within a traffic stream 
IS-030-963 
status 
Weather-related road closure status 
IS-030-964 
drivingRestrictions 
Weather-related driving restrictions 
IS-030-965 
drivingIndex 
Weather-related driving conditions 
IS-030-966 
medianType 
Type of median 
IS-030-967 
mobileFriction 
Measured coefficient of friction in percent 
IS-030-968 
pavementConditions 
Pavement conditions 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
IS-030-969 
pavementTemperature 
Current pavement temperature 2-10 centimeters 
below the pavement surface in tenths of degrees 
Celsius 
IS-030-970 
surfaceTemperature 
Current pavement surface temperature in tenths of 
degrees Celsius 
IS-030-971 
surfaceSalinity 
Pavement salinity in parts per one hundred 
thousand 
IS-030-972 
pavementType 
Pavement type 
IS-030-973 
treatmentForm 
Condition of the treatment being applied to the 
road 
IS-030-974 
treatmentType 
Type of treatment being applied to the road 
IS-030-975 
treatmentAmount 
Quantity of the treatment being applied in 
kilograms per lane kilometer 
IS-030-976 
treatmentWidth 
Width of the spread of treatment in meters 
IS-030-977 
pressure 
Force per unit area exerted by the atmosphere in 
tenths of millibars (a.k.a. tenths of hectopascals) 
IS-030-978 
solarRate 
Direct solar radiation integrated over the 24 hours 
preceding the observation in joules, per square 
meter 
IS-030-979 
dewPoint 
Dewpoint temperature in tenths of degrees Celsius 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
APPENDIX F - SAE J2354 EVENTINFORMATION 
ELEMENTS 
The DUAP system shall be capable of storing and publishing the following data 
elements for each traffic event or incident item: 
ID 
Element 
Description 
IS-070-301 
id 
Unique identifier 
IS-070-302 
reference 
Reference identifier 
IS-070-303 
issuingAgency 
Name of reporting agency 
IS-070-304 
updateTime 
Date/timestamp indicating when the item was 
updated by the issuing agency 
IS-070-305 
location 
Geographic location description 
IS-070-306 
isForecast 
Indicate whether the date/timestamps are forecasted 
or absolute 
IS-070-307 
coverageTime 
Date/timestamp indicating the coverage time 
IS-070-308 
forecastExpires 
Date/timestamp indicating the forecasted expiration 
time 
IS-070-309 
typeEvent 
Type of traffic event 
IS-070-310 
severity 
Severity 
IS-070-311 
status 
Status 
IS-070-312 
cause 
Cause 
IS-070-313 
description 
Description 
IS-070-314 
advice 
Advice 
IS-070-315 
affectedLane 
Lanes affected and direction(s) of travel impacted 
IS-070-316 
vehiclesInvolvedCount 
Number of vehicles involved 
IS-070-317 
types 
Types of vehicles involved  
IS-070-318 
injuries 
Number of injuries 
IS-070-319 
startTime 
Date/timestamp indicating the start time 
IS-070-320 
clearTime 
Date/timestamp indicating the ending time 
IS-070-321 
repeatTimes 
Repeating times for traffic events which recur over 
a period of days 
IS-070-322 
furtherData 
URL for further information 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
APPENDIX G - SAE J2354 LINKTRAFFICINFORMATION 
ELEMENTS 
The DUAP system shall be capable of storing and publishing the following data 
elements for each traffic condition item: 
ID 
Element 
Description 
IS-070-501 
id 
Unique identifier 
IS-070-502 
reference 
Reference identifier 
IS-070-503 
issuingAgency 
Name of reporting agency 
IS-070-504 
updateTime 
Date/timestamp indicating when the item was 
updated by the issuing agency 
IS-070-505 
location 
Geographic location description 
IS-070-506 
isForecast 
Indicate whether the date/timestamps are forecasted 
or absolute 
IS-070-507 
coverageTime 
Date/timestamp indicating the coverage time 
IS-070-508 
forecastExpires 
Date/timestamp indicating the forecasted expiration 
time 
IS-070-509 
capacity 
Link capacity expressed as the maximum capacity 
in vehicles per hour for each referenced link 
IS-070-510 
delay 
Calculated delay in seconds (additional time it will 
take above that recorded during free flow 
conditions) for vehicles driving along each 
referenced link 
IS-070-511 
density 
Link density expressed as the vehicle concentration 
per kilometer of the link for each referenced link 
IS-070-512 
lanesMinimumNumber 
Minimum number of lanes for each referenced link 
IS-070-513 
lanesNumberOpen 
Minimum number of open lanes for each 
referenced link 
IS-070-514 
length 
Link length for each referenced link from 
beginning node to ending node in meters 
IS-070-515 
levelOfService 
Link level of service for each referenced link 
IS-070-516 
medianType 
Link median type for each referenced link 
IS-070-517 
name 
Link name for each referenced link 
IS-070-518 
occupancy 
Percent occupancy measured for each referenced 
link 
IS-070-519 
pavementType 
Pavement type for each referenced link. 
IS-070-520 
restrictionAxleCount 
Maximum axle count per vehicle for each 
referenced link 
IS-070-521 
restrictionAxleWeight 
Maximum axle weight for each referenced link 
IS-070-522 
restrictionClass 
Restriction classification for each referenced link 
IS-070-523 
restrictionHeight 
Maximum vehicle height in centimeters for each 
referenced link 
IS-070-524 
restrictionLength 
Maximum vehicle length in centimeters for each 
referenced link 
IS-070-525 
restrictionWeight 
Maximum vehicle weight in kilograms for each 
referenced link 
IS-070-526 
restrictionWidth 
Maximum vehicle width in centimeters for each 
referenced link 
IS-070-527 
roadNumber 
County, State, or Federal route numbers with any 
associated alphabetic designators for each 
referenced link 
© 2007 


Michigan Department of Transportation 
VII Data Use Analysis and Processing 
System Requirements Specification 
ID 
Element 
Description 
IS-070-528 
shoulderWidthLeft 
Left shoulder width in centimeters for each 
referenced link 
IS-070-529 
shoulderWidthRight 
Right shoulder width in centimeters for each 
referenced link 
IS-070-530 
speed 
Average vehicular speed in kilometers per hour for 
each referenced link  
IS-070-531 
speedLimit 
Posted or legal speed limit for automobiles in 
kilometers per hour for each referenced link 
IS-070-532 
linkStatus 
Link status for each referenced link 
IS-070-533 
surfaceConditions 
Surface conditions for each referenced link 
IS-070-534 
travelTime 
Travel time in seconds for each referenced link 
IS-070-535 
truckSpeedLimit 
Posted or legal speed limit for trucks in kilometers 
per hour for each referenced link 
IS-070-536 
nodeDelay 
Travel delays in seconds 
IS-070-537 
nodeLinksNum 
Number of roadway links beginning or ending at 
each link node 
IS-070-538 
nodeName 
Name of the roadway intersection as used for 
identification of a link node 
IS-070-539 
nodeStatus 
Status of each roadway intersection 
IS-070-540 
owner 
Ownership for each referenced link 
IS-070-541 
jurisdiction 
Name of the law enforcement agency with 
authority over the referenced link 
IS-070-542 
affectedLanes 
Lanes affected and direction(s) of travel impacted 
for each referenced traffic condition reported 
 
© 2007 
