GOG Software Requirements
Speciﬁcation
prepared by:
Y. Isasi, P. Sartoretti, C. Babusiaux, X.˜Luri,
E. Masana
approved by:
CU2 CCB
reference:
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
issue:
2
revision:
1
date:
2009-03-31
status:
issued


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
Abstract
This is the GOG Software Requirements Speciﬁcation Document.
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
2


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
Document History
Issue
Revision
Date
Author
Comment
2
1
2009-03-31
XL
Version for CDR (very minor changes)
1
4
20-MAY-2008
YI
Modiﬁcations from SRR RID actions
1
3
15-MAY-2008
YI
Version for DPACE review.
Non-Funcional require-
ments added
1
3
28-OCT-2007
YI
Comments from DPACE taken into account
1
3
28-OCT-2007
YI
Comments from DPACE taken into account
1
2
8-OCT-2007
XL
Version for DPACE review
1
1
28-SEP-2007
XL
Version for internal review
D
3
27-SEP-2007
YI
First complete version
D
2
02-JUL-2007
YI
SRS Review Issued
D
1
20-OCT-2006
YI
Initial Issued Version
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
3


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
Contents
1
Introduction
6
1.1
Objectives
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6
1.2
Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9
1.3
Assumptions
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9
1.4
Applicable Documents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9
1.5
References
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9
1.6
Deﬁnitions, acronyms, and abbreviations
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10
2
General description and requirements
11
2.1
Context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12
2.2
Decomposition
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12
2.2.1
Initialisation module
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13
2.2.2
Epoch Parameters Module
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13
2.2.3
Combined Parameters Module
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13
2.2.4
Spectrum simulation module
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16
2.2.5
Output module
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16
2.3
Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18
3
Initialisation Module
20
3.1
Description and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20
3.2
Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
4


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
3.3
Input / Output . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21
4
Epoch Parameters module
22
4.1
Description and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22
4.2
Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22
4.3
Input / Output . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22
5
Combined Parameters module
24
5.1
Description and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
5.2
Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
5.3
Input / Output . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
6
Spectrum Simulation Module
26
6.1
Description and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
26
6.2
Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
26
6.3
Input / Output . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
26
7
Output Module
27
7.1
Description and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27
7.2
Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27
7.3
Input / Output . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27
A Traceability to upper level requirements
28
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
5


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
1
Introduction
This is the Software Requirement Speciﬁcation for GOG, which describes in detail the objec-
tives of the software simulator and the requirements to be considered on its design and con-
struction.The document is organized in a hierarchical way going from a higer level perspective
to a more detailed view on GOG operational ﬂows.
1.1
Objectives
GOG is a tool to directly get Catalogue, Main Database (MDB) data and ﬁnal (in the sense of
statistically equivalent to the ﬁnal mission data) data without the use GASS telemetry, GIBIS
or the main ESAC database The Gaia Object Generator (GOG) is expected to simulate catalog
data, auxiliary data and intermediate main database data (including mission ﬁnal data) for all
the Gaia instruments. It will use error models to provide rapid simulations of large amount of
data. The realism of the simulations depends on the realism of the available error models. The
schema shown in ﬁgure 1 depicts from a high level perspective where GOG will produce its
data on the overall current data ﬂow for Gaia:
GOG is based on the Universe and spacecraft & payload models of the GaiaSimu library
(GAIA-C2-TN-OPM-FC-001) and uses error models to provide rapid simulations of large amount
of data. The realism of the simulations depends on the realism of the available error models.
The implementation of the instrumental error models is planned to be a gradual process that
will be based on the study of the detailed pixel-level simulated data produced by GIBIS. The
simulation of processed data requires models of the calibration errors that will be provided by
the CUs in charge of the calibration algorithms development. In order to simulate data at a pre-
cise step of the processing, the addition of the calibration errors is planned to be user-selectable.
The output format of GOG simulated data will be according to the Interface Control Document
for the Gaia Main database (GAIA-C3-SP-ESAC-JH-002 in preparation). Note that some of the
steps and options described here will have to be revised when the actual ICD will be available.
GOG is expected to be in continuous evolution depending on the availability of the error mod-
els. To allow satisfying all the needs to access speciﬁc data, GOG will be entirely modular and
conﬁgurable through an input conﬁguration ﬁle. For the source generation, 2 main options will
be available:
1. Generation of the data from the Universe model of the GaiaSimu library: the user
will specify a sky region (e.g. an HTM, square, circle). This sky region can also be
deﬁned as the region scanned by Gaia during a given time interval.
2. Generation of the data for an input object catalog: this catalog is generated by the
user and provides all the necessary information of the objects to simulate (with or
without spectra as input).
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
6


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
FIGURE 1: GOG global overview diagram
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
7


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
Note that the relative positions of the sources with each other will not be used by GOG to add
overlapping effects, GOG only works source by source. Only the density at the source position
could be used to adjust the error models (if they are provided as a function of density). However,
we consider the possibly, for a GOG version close to launch, to work also per sky regions (in
addition of working source by source), and to accurately model the overlapping effects (TBC).
Three main outputs will be available:
• universe model catalog data, according to the universe model ICD.
• main data base data epoch data: this is the data as observed and reduced for each
transit of the source. The user can ask for only one typical epoch data or for all the
transits of the source. Those outputs contain the ﬁeld angles, epoch radial velocity,
G magnitude, spectra, etc.
• main data base data combined data: this is the output produced by combining all the
available epoch data, e.g. the derived parallax, proper motions, mean radial velocity,
G magnitude, spectra, etc. The combined data can be queried for a given reduction
stage (6 months, 12 months, etc. from the mission start) or for all transits (thereby
providing the end-of-mission data). There is also the possibility, especially used
when the sources are generated from an input object catalog with no information
on the object position implying that the number of transits can not be derived, to
specify the number of transits (for end-of-mission data) instead of the reduction
stage.
For the noise generation, the noise effects will be user-selectable: they can be added or not and
their values may also be given by the user (depending on the noise). Two main types of noises
will be simulated:
1. Instrumental noise: noise that will come from the observation process, e.g. on-board
detection and tracking or observation dead-time.
2. Reduction noise: Noise that will be added to the data when trying to remove the
instrumental noise (see above) and extract the scientiﬁc content, e.g. residuals from
cosmic rays removal, background subtraction, subtraction of close sources or sec-
ond FoV contamination.
This will depend on the availability of the models.
Note that GOG aim will not be to produce raw data but pre-processed data so that GOG will
put more effort on simulating how the instrumental noise will be removed (or not) than on
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
8


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
simulating the instrumental noise itself. The user interested on the simulation of the details of
the instrumental noise (including crowding issues) should use GIBIS instead. Note that spectra
can be considered as close to the instrumental noise as the PSF in particular will never be
removed from the raw spectra.
1.2
Scope
The present document is address to all the Cu’s members that require an understanding of the
software requirements,restriccions and assumptions considered to design and build GOG. To
help on this, several SADT diagrams of the main and alternate execution ﬂows are provided.
1.3
Assumptions
The following requirements have been capture thinking on a GOG generic operational be-
haviour. At this stage some spectations for GOG might changed.The main hurdle GOG has,
is that the contents of the main database are not fully completed. For this reason the initial
versions of Gog will consider the current speciﬁcations and will be based on the restrictions
described in section 11.
1.4
Applicable Documents
JH-001
Interface Control Document for the Gaia Main Database
CR-001
Gaia Universe Model Interface Control Document
TL-001
DPAC Product Assurance Plan
XL-005
Software Development Plan for CU2
1.5
References
Hernandez, J., 2008, Main Database Interface Control Document,
GAIA-C1-SP-ESAC-JH-001,
URL http://www.rssd.esa.int/llink/livelink/open/2786145
Levoir, T., Damery, J., Hoar, J., et al., 2007, DPAC Software Product Assurance Plan,
GAIA-C1-PL-CNES-TL-001,
URL http://www.rssd.esa.int/llink/livelink/open/2439085
Luri, X., Babusiaux, C., Wallut, J., 2009, CU2 Software development plan,
GAIA-C2-PL-UB-XL-005,
URL http://www.rssd.esa.int/llink/livelink/open/2785388
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
9


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
Reyle, C., Robin, A., Arenou, F., et al., 2008, Universe model ICD,
GAIA-C2-SP-LAOB-CR-001,
URL http://www.rssd.esa.int/llink/livelink/open/2732832
1.6
Deﬁnitions, acronyms, and abbreviations
The requirements set out in this SRS follow the labeling scheme:
CU2-GOG-module-X-SCOPE-xxx
where GOG is the Software Product Label , module identiﬁes the GOG module. X is either S
(for Scientiﬁc), T (for Technical), Q (for Quality Assurance), or M (for Management). SCOPE
is a three or four letter scope speciﬁcation of the requirement following the identiﬁed list of
possible values of TL-001 whenever feasible. xxx is a monotonically increasing counter starting
at 20 for every unique combination of module-SCOPE.
Each requirement is presented with its unique label and a number of attributes in accordance
with TL-001 in the following form:
GOG-module-X-SCOPE-020
C.v
Veriﬁc.
Status
Description
Parent: Parent
with (see TL-001 for lists of allowed values, meanings and valid ranges):
GOG-module-X-SCOPE-xxx
The unique identiﬁer of the requirement (see above)
C.v
Version number of the requirement composed of major (C) and minor
(v) part
Priority
Priority of the requirement
Veriﬁcation
Envisaged validation method of requirement - this will be either AUT
for automated or MAN for Manual. The Software Test Plan deﬁnes
precisely how the requirement is veriﬁed.
Status
Status identiﬁer
Parent
Higher level requirement or requirements, comma separated list
SCOPE is a three character scope speciﬁcation of the requirement one of :
REQ:
concerning requirements,
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
10


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
SPC:
concerning speciﬁcation activities,
DES:
concerning design activities,
IMP:
concerning implementation activities,
INT:
concerning integration activities,
VAL:
concerning validation activities,
ACP:
concerning acceptance activities,
MNT: concerning maintenance activities,
OPS:
concerning operation activities,
FUN:
concerning functional requirements,
PLN:
concerning organisational requirements (including planning, phases, reviews, etc.),
SUP:
concerning support requirements,
PRF:
concerning performance requirements (including dimensioning, resource estimation, etc.),
RSK:
concerning risk management requirements,
CTL:
concerning veriﬁcation and control activities,
CNF:
concerning conﬁguration management activities,
DIM:
concerning dimensioning activities.
The following is a complete list of acronyms used in this document.
List of acronyms used in this document:
Acronym
Description
CU
Coordination Unit (in DPAC)
DPAC
Data Processing and Analysis Consortium
DU
Development Unit (in DPAC)
GASS
GAia System-level Simulator
GIBIS
Gaia Instrument and Basic Image Simulator
GOG
Gaia Object Generator
I/O
Input/Output
QA
Quality Assurance
SADT
Structured Analysis and Design Technique
SRS
System Requirement Speciﬁcation
UM
Universe Model
WP
Work Package
2
General description and requirements
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
11


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
2.1
Context
On this overview we see GOG as a unique software product. From the high level perspective it
can be decomposed on the SADT diagram as follows:
FIGURE 2: GOG general i/o context diagram
Exploding the central box, looking one level deeper, we could distinguish the following main
blocks of execution. The following pictures shows how the problem is depicted.
2.2
Decomposition
According to TL-001 a ’Software Product’ is composed of several ’Modules’. In this section we
describe how the system is logically decomposed and mention the modules which will appear
from Sect. 3 onward and how they interact.
GOG as a software product can be decomposed in software modules. We have identiﬁed the
following main conceptual modules
• Initialisation Module
• Epoch parameters Module
• Combined parameters Module
• Spectrum simulation Module
• I/O Module
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
12


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
FIGURE 3: GOG data simulation general view
2.2.1
Initialisation module
Figure 4 shows how the initialization module is decomposed
2.2.2
Epoch Parameters Module
If epoch data is requested a transit calculation takes place. The transit (epoch) parameters are
described in ﬁgure 5.
The epoch astrometry is decomposed as shown in ﬁgure 6.
2.2.3
Combined Parameters Module
If combined data are requested the combined parameters are computed for every requested
mode (see ﬁgure: 7).
The combined astrometry parameters computation ﬂow is different from the epoch one as shown
in ﬁgure 8
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
13


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
FIGURE 4: GOG initialisation module general view.
FIGURE 5: GOG epoch data computation ﬂow.
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
14


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
FIGURE 6: GOG astrometric epoch data generation ﬂow.
FIGURE 7: GOG combined data computation ﬂow.
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
15


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
FIGURE 8: GOG astrometric combined data ﬂow.
2.2.4
Spectrum simulation module
Figure 9 depicts the alternate simulation ﬂow for spectra processing.
2.2.5
Output module
GOG output module has the responsability to write the ﬁnal results. Figure 10 shown its de-
composition.
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
16


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
FIGURE 9: GOG spectra simulation ﬂow.
FIGURE 10: GOG output generation ﬂow.
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
17


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
2.3
Requirements
This is for high level requirements which apply to all modules. These requirements may be
removed from this document and appear in a higher level requirements document for CU2or at
the DPC level. If this section is empty mention the higher documents - they should be in the
applicable document list.
GOG-GEN-S-FUN-020
1.1
AUTO
Issued
CU2 will be responsible for the design and developing of GOG that will provide Catalogue,
Main Database (MDB) and ﬁnal data.(in the sense of statistically equivalent to the ﬁnal
mission data) data without the use GASS telemetry, GIBIS or the main ESAC database
Parent: DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-320
GOG-GEN-S-FUN-040
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG will be fully integrated in the Gaia Simulator project. That is, it will use as other the
other simulators the Gaia Simu library and the Gaia Tools library.
GOG-GEN-S-FUN-060
1.1
MAN
Issued
For source generation GOG has 2 main options available: Universe Model from GaiaSimu
or a Object Input Catalogue
GOG-GEN-S-FUN-080
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG has a source by source processing mechanism
GOG-GEN-S-FUN-100
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG must consider noise effects.
For noise generation those effects should be user-
selectable (they can be added or not and the values should be given by users).We classify
noises in two groups:
1. Instrumental noises: noises that come from observation process such as:on
board detection and tracking or observation dead-time
2. reduction noise: noise added to the data when removing instrumental noise
GOG-GEN-S-FUN-120
1.1
MAN
Issue
GOG I/O Catalogue format is driven by [AD3] . Main Data base format is deﬁned in [AD1]
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
18


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
GOG-GEN-S-FUN-140
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG must give the same result for identical input conﬁguration parameters
GOG-GEN-T-NFUN-020
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG must provide a way to be run from a command line or a shell script.
GOG-GEN-T-NFUN-040
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG should be able to run in a cluster or grid environtments
GOG-GEN-T-NFUN-060
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG is built as a standalone java aplication that could be invoked from a command line
and deployed as a jar ﬁle.
GOG-GEN-T-NFUN-080
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG is designed to run on either in a single thread mode on grid environments.
GOG-GEN-T-NFUN-100
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG runs on LINUX , UNIX and MAC computers (minimum).GOG results are platform
independent
GOG-GEN-T-NFUN-120
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG will have to generate data of a considerable amount of astrosources whose number
could be a signiﬁcant part of the expected ﬁnal catalogue (20%).
GOG-GEN-T-NFUN-140
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG must be able to process one complete source processing on 2 CPU seconds.
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
19


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
3
Initialisation Module
3.1
Description and Objectives
The initialisation modules is in charge of loading and storing the read conﬁguration in a proper
way. T he module has to offer a common interface to get values from the conﬁguration in an
easy manner.
3.2
Requirements
List here all of the requirements on the module including functional and non-functional require-
ments
GOG-CON-T-FUN-020
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG initialisation Module should be able to read information of the input sources. Options
are to use the Universe Model or a provided user sources
Parent: DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-380
GOG-CON-T-FUN-040
1.1
MAN
Issued
The GOG catalogue module must include information on the universe model:
• Galaxy model
• SkyBackGroung model
• Extinction Law model
• DMS model
Parent: DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-380
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
20


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
GOG-CON-T-FUN-060
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG initialisation module must include information on the instrument model:
• The selected scanning law
• Dead time.
• Noise models (including detection noise)
Parent: DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-380
GOG-CON-T-FUN-080
1.1
MAN
Issued
The GOG catalogue module must include information on the reduction model:
• Instrument effects substraction node bias substraction noises PPE residuals
noise
• Scientiﬁc content extraction noise substraction of close sources second FoV
contamination noise backgound substraction.
Parent: DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-380
GOG-CON-T-FUN-100
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG initialisation module will deﬁne the output speciﬁcation output parameters (spectrum
RPBP/RVS, astrometry, Vr, physical parameters and ﬂags) epoch and/or combined number
of epochs
Parent: DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-380
.
3.3
Input / Output
Input: an XML conﬁguration ﬁle
Output: a memory properties-like structure loaded ready to be used
For further descrption on the inputs refer to GOG ICD input parameters section
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
21


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
4
Epoch Parameters module
4.1
Description and Objectives
The epoch parameters module is in charge of all the epoch parameters settings and calculations
of the GOG simulation
4.2
Requirements
List here all of the requirements on the module including functional.
This includes non-
functional requirements
GOG-EPCH-S-FUN-020
1.1
MAN
Issued
Determine for epoch data the astrometric parameter (with instrumental and reduction er-
rors): transit times and ﬁeld angles in each CCD mean transit time and ﬁeld angle for the
transit.Gate activation and signal loss due to window cutoff must be taken into account.
GOG-EPCH-S-FUN-040
1.1
MAN
Issued
Determine the epoch data photometry (with instrumental and reduction errors): G mag (for
each CCD and average for the transit), GRP, GBP, GRVS . Gate activation and signal loss
due to window cutoff must be taken into account.
GOG-EPCH-S-FUN-060
1.1
MAN
Issued
Determine the epoch radial velocity (with instrumental and reduction errors)
GOG-EPCH-S-FUN-080
1.1
MAN
Issued
Determine the epoch ﬂags
GOG-EPCH-S-FUN-100
1.1
MAN
Issued
Determine the epoch physical parameters (Av, Teff, logg, FeH)
4.3
Input / Output
The input is the source itself that has a particular transit
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
22


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
The output is the epoch data bean
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
23


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
5
Combined Parameters module
5.1
Description and Objectives
The combined parameters module is in charge of all the combined parameters settings and
calculations of the GOG simulation
5.2
Requirements
GOG-CMB-S-FUN-020
1.1
MAN
Issued
• Compute the astrometric combined data using all previous transits:
• Compute parallax and proper motion errors
• Determine de covariance matrix
• Determine estimated errors for the astrometric parameters at the mean epoch
GOG-CMB-S-FUN-040
1.1
MAN
Issued
Determine the combined data photometry: mean G, GRP, GBP, GRVS
GOG-CMB-S-FUN-060
1.1
MAN
Issued
Determine the mean radial velocity
GOG-CMB-S-FUN-080
1.1
MAN
Issued
Determine the ﬁnal ﬂags (variability, non-single star.)
GOG-CMB-S-FUN-100
1.1
MAN
Issued
Determine the mean physical parameters (classiﬁcation, Av, Teff , logg, FeH)
5.3
Input / Output
The input is the source itself
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
24


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
The output is the combined data bean
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
25


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
6
Spectrum Simulation Module
6.1
Description and Objectives
The spectrum module is in charge of all the spectrum settings and calculations of the GOG
simulation. This module covers both RP/BP and RVS spectrum simulation.
6.2
Requirements
GOG-SPCT-S-FUN-020
1.1
MAN
Issued
Noise consideration on:
• Flux noise (Poisson noise, total detection noise,...)
• CCD combination noise for (RVS)
• Wavelength calibration
• Multi-transit combination noise (only for combined data)should be added
6.3
Input / Output
The input is the source itself.The output is the epoch and or combined data bean
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
26


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
7
Output Module
7.1
Description and Objectives
The output module comunicates GOG ﬂow execution with the ﬁlesystem. When the ﬂow re-
quest a ﬁle it obtains it from the system and also it writes the ﬁles requested as GOG outputs
7.2
Requirements
GOG-IO-T-FUN-020
1.1
MAN
Issued
The universe catalog output data of the simulation has to follow the universe model ICD
document.Note: GaiaSimu library will allow to write and read this format.
GOG-IO-T-FUN-040
1.1
MAN
Issued
GOG output should be driven by the MDB data model.The output will be used to distribute
extracts to the DPC’s
Parent: DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-340,DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-360
7.3
Input / Output
The output data of the simulation has to follow the universe model ICD document.
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
27


CU2-DU7
GOG SRS
GAIA-C2-SP-UB-YI-002-2
A
Traceability to upper level requirements
The traceability between this SRS and CU or DPC SRS or the SIRD is given here.
Parent Requirement
Requirements in this document
DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-320
CU2-GOG-GEN-S-FUN-20
DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-340
CU2-GOG-IO-T-FUN-40
DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-360
CU2-GOG-IO-T-FUN-40
DPAC-CU2-S-FUN-380
CU2-GOG-CON-T-FUN-20,
CU2-GOG-CON-T-FUN-
40,
CU2-GOG-CON-T-FUN-60,
CU2-GOG-CON-T-
FUN-80, CU2-GOG-CON-T-FUN-100
Software Requirement Speciﬁcation
28
